Message-ID: <23213329.1075856606762.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Tue, 21 Nov 2000 08:39:00 -0800 (PST)
From: steven.leppard@enron.com
To: vince.kaminski@enron.com
Subject: In confidence: PRC summary
Cc: tani.nath@enron.com, dale.surbey@enron.com
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
Bcc: tani.nath@enron.com, dale.surbey@enron.com
X-From: Steven Leppard
X-To: Vince J Kaminski
X-cc: Tani Nath, Dale Surbey
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Kaminski-V
X-FileName: vkamins.nsf

Hi Vince

Following our PRC meeting yesterday, here are the high-level facts as I 
presented them:
Ben Parsons, overall: satisfactory.  Good interpersonal skills, we have 
questions on his quant abilities.  Reluctant to discuss/share his modelling 
work, and that which I have seen has too many hand fixes to give me 
confidence in his rigour.  Other EnronCredit.com feedback indicates that he 
is sometimes prepared to compromise quant analysis to keep the traders happy.
Matthew Williams, overall: excellent.  Superior quant skills, excellent 
everywhere else.  Recommended for promotion to Senior Specialist.
Kirstee Hewitt, overall: excellent.  A solid all-round performance, and a 
huge workload.  In recognition of the level of responsibility Kirstee is 
bearing I'm recommending her for promotion to Senior Specialist.
Sharad Agnihotri, overall: excellent.  Superior quant skills, excellent 
everywhere else.  Very self-directed and commercial-minded.  Already 
operating at manager level in my opinion.  Flagged for promotion next 
mid-year if performance continues at this level.
Slava Danilov, overall: excellent.  Superior quant skills, excellent 
everywhere else.  As a non-commercial-type quant he is hard to fault, but 
will probably never work on a trading desk.  Already operating at manager 
level in terms of his depth and rigour of analysis, and the extent to which 
he is contributing to the team.  Flagged for promotion next mid-year if 
performance continues at this level.

Steve