Message-ID: <12353300.1075854120528.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Fri, 31 Dec 1999 03:15:00 -0800 (PST)
From: mandy.mackinnon@enron.com
To: pat.clynes@enron.com, daren.farmer@enron.com
Subject: Unresolved Issues for Jan 1.
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Mandy MacKinnon
X-To: Pat Clynes, Daren J Farmer
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Farmer-D
X-FileName: dfarmer.nsf

I think everyone agrees that there was a lot of confusion in Desk assignments 
and responsibilities.  With that said, I am listing some of the current 
issues that I have seen, that will need to be addressed quickly.  Most of 
these issues are none of my business, but since I see unpathed gas I thought 
you two might want to dicsuss these issues.

Enron Field Services   -  Has not been nominated since September 99.  Have we 
stopped doing business on this pipe?  (Just an FYI - ?)  Do we need to get 
this assigned?  I can find old
   notes and try to get this pathed if necessary.  Someone just needs to let 
me know.

Lavaca Expense Transport -  This is offsystem gas that HPLC Transports for 
ENA.  ENA has no nom at meter 1000 in Pops for Jan 1.

MidCon Texas Pipeline   -  There were deals left unpathed for Jan 1 (and 
Dec?).  I brokered and nominated the obvious but we seem to have 10,000 with 
transport contract to move this    gas on and no sale to broker to.  As it 
stands, it looks like we have a long position.  Who is this assigned to?  I 
thought Carlos was handling this one, but I could    be wrong.

Channel Industries Pipeline  -  Several issues here:

 1. All Deals with the exception of the long term Transport Expense were left 
unpathed for Jan 1.  I viewed prior month transactions and pathed 
appropriately.  Someone
  needs to review for accuracy. Also, there were deals that went to zero, 
that were nominated for January.

 2. We still do not have enough supply to meet our sales requirement.  This 
issue has been left unsresolved since October 99.  Volume Management cannot 
allocate was is
  not pathed and nominated.  

 3. There is a transaction for January that is once again not on our point 
specific transport contracts.  (Rec Mtr 1-6366 10,000 to Del Mtr 2-6203 
10,000).  This is a pathed    pipeline. We have no rate.  We need to know the 
rate and whether one of the expense contracts needs to be amended for this 
transaction, we are not legally covered.    Carlos was handling this pipe in 
Dec.  Who is this assigned to for Jan?

HPL Operational -  This Shipper on HPL has been left unpathed for December 
and January 1.  Who is this assigned to?  This can wait until we get back 
next week.  If it is left     unresolved, I will get it pathed when I return.



Pat  -   The following  was my recollection of the assignments for Dec 1 to 
the present.  You might want to confirm with Mary Smith and then you can 
proceed with decisions that need to be made based on possible unassigned 
issues.

Hank Eisenhours duties were split :

Mandey -   Handle all long term HPLC expense issues:  undeveloped contracts, 
December flow forward and cleanup of 1999 unresolved issues.

Carlos  -  All offsystem transactions for ENA and HPLC in Unify and all 
offsystem paper and electronic noms on Intrastate Pipes.  Ami and Stacey
  also handle some.  There is a lot of confusion here.  I found unpathed gas 
for December.  We'll need to address this one quickly.

HPL Transports were all split by zone.  Each Logistics rep is responsible for 
pathing all meters in their assigned zones in Unify.

HPL Operational seems to be left unassigned. 

I think most of the desk assumed that Carlos took over Hanks 
responsibilities.  The assignments above are my recollection only.