Message-ID: <8423130.1075854121261.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Tue, 11 Jan 2000 11:38:00 -0800 (PST)
From: mandy.mackinnon@enron.com
To: pat.clynes@enron.com, daren.farmer@enron.com
Subject: Unresolved Issues for Jan 1.- Followup
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Mandy MacKinnon
X-To: Pat Clynes, Daren J Farmer
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Farmer-D
X-FileName: dfarmer.nsf

Here is a followup to the memo sent on 12/31/99.  FYI


Enron Field Services   -  Has not been nominated since September 99.  Have we 
stopped doing business on this pipe?  (Just an FYI - ?)  Do we need to get 
this assigned?  I can find old
   notes and try to get this pathed if necessary.  Someone just needs to let 
me know. Unresolved - appears to be unassigned?

Lavaca Expense Transport -  This is offsystem gas that HPLC Transports for 
ENA.  ENA has no nom at meter 1000 in Pops for Jan 1. Unresolved

MidCon Texas Pipeline   -  There were deals left unpathed for Jan 1 (and 
Dec?).  I brokered and nominated the obvious but we seem to have 10,000 with 
transport contract to move this    gas on and no sale to broker to.  As it 
stands, it looks like we have a long position.  Who is this assigned to?  I 
thought Carlos was handling this one, but I could    be wrong.  Unresolved

Channel Industries Pipeline  -  Several issues here:

 1. All Deals with the exception of the long term Transport Expense were left 
unpathed for Jan 1.  I viewed prior month transactions and pathed 
appropriately.  Someone
  needs to review for accuracy. Also, there were deals that went to zero, 
that were nominated for January.  Resolved but needs to be verified.

 2. We still do not have enough supply to meet our sales requirement.  This 
issue has been left unsresolved since October 99.  Volume Management cannot 
allocate was is
  not pathed and nominated.  Unresolved or Unpathed?

 3. There is a transaction for January that is once again not on our point 
specific transport contracts.  (Rec Mtr 1-6366 10,000 to Del Mtr 2-6203 
10,000).  This is a pathed pipeline. We have no rate.  We need to know the 
rate and whether one of the expense contracts needs to be amended for this 
transaction, we are not legally covered.  Carlos was handling this pipe in 
Dec.  Who is this assigned to for Jan? Unresolved

HPL Operational -  This Shipper on HPL has been left unpathed for December 
and January 1.  Who is this assigned to?  This can wait until we get back 
next week.  If it is left     unresolved, I will get it pathed when I return. 
I haven't had time to do this yet.  If we haven't figured out the assignement 
then I will get to it asap.


