Message-ID: <18594207.1075854123903.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Mon, 14 Feb 2000 02:59:00 -0800 (PST)
From: robert.superty@enron.com
To: edward.terry@enron.com, joe.casas@enron.com, rhonda.dempsey@enron.com, 
	randall.gay@enron.com, jacqueline.adams@enron.com, 
	george.smith@enron.com, charles.muzzy@enron.com, 
	katherine.kelly@enron.com, clarissa.garcia@enron.com, 
	beverly.beaty@enron.com, daren.farmer@enron.com
Subject: Alternative work schedule status
Cc: heather.choate@enron.com
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
Bcc: heather.choate@enron.com
X-From: Robert Superty
X-To: Edward Terry, Joe A Casas, Rhonda Dempsey, Randall L Gay, Jacqueline P Adams, George Smith, Charles T Muzzy, Katherine L Kelly, Clarissa Garcia, Beverly Beaty, Daren J Farmer
X-cc: Heather Choate
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Farmer-D
X-FileName: dfarmer.nsf

As you might already know we had to reschedule our second meeting that was 
scheduled for Wednesday 2/16 to Tuesday 2/22 in room 3013. Lunch will be 
provided. I apologize and will avoid rescheduling our meetings in the future. 
I was encouraged by the excellent dialogue and contribution at our first 
meeting and believe we have the right group together to make the changes we 
know are needed in our work hours. 

Here is the list of items we agreed to cover at the next meeting:

Schedulers were going to touch base with their pipeline reps and other 
contacts on the different schedules they are using and document and discuss 
at the next meeting.

Each manager was going to discuss with their group what would work best for 
their desk and present this to the group at our next meeting

Bob was going to gather information on external 12 hour schedules and follow 
up with HR on schedules being used at Enron



The following is what I heard at the first meeting:

Our first item should be to establish a weekend and holiday schedule that 
would more or less guarantee (other than maybe an occasional call) you have 
the weekend off.  Cross-training seemed to be the key here. Some desks seemed 
to doubt this could be accomplished with current staffing levels. 
Cross-training is not an easy thing to accomplish and takes a "just do it" 
attitude. 

There doesn't have to be an across the board solution for Logistics. However 
all solutions we come up with will need to be formally documented so it will 
be easy to move to other alternatives as the business needs of each desk 
changes.

Late daily hours are a reality and at some desks tied directly to traders 
willingness to do deals at any time. As we get a better handle on what other 
companies are doing we might be able to find something that will help address 
this. Everyone is realistic about the exceptions such as bid-week etc. and 
really have no problems with those times when a long day is part of the job.

There were mixed reactions to a dedicated weekend team as opposed to some 
type of rotating group. Mixed feelings about whether the group would be open 
to a mandatory rotating weekend schedule. 


Feel free to get back to me if you have any comments or clarification. I'm 
looking forward to our next meeting - Bob











