Message-ID: <10911022.1075854124350.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Thu, 17 Feb 2000 04:03:00 -0800 (PST)
From: brenda.herod@enron.com
To: lisa.csikos@enron.com, daren.farmer@enron.com, mary.smith@enron.com, 
	rita.wynne@enron.com, steve.venturatos@enron.com, 
	pat.clynes@enron.com, kim.melodick@enron.com, 
	norma.villarreal@enron.com, alexus.rhone@enron.com, 
	yvette.connevey@enron.com
Subject: Yesterday's Off-site
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Brenda F Herod
X-To: Lisa Csikos, Daren J Farmer, Mary M Smith, Rita Wynne, Steve Venturatos, Pat Clynes, Kim Melodick, Norma Villarreal, Alexus Rhone, Yvette G Connevey
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Farmer-D
X-FileName: dfarmer.nsf

Just want to pat each of you on the back, and express my appreciation to each 
of you for taking time out of your schedules to meet yesterday.  The results 
of our time exceeded my expectations in that I feel we had quality discussion 
and also identified some ideas and solutions to put in place quickly.  Each 
of you contributed concerns and discussion ideas in a very professional and 
positive manner.   I also realize we have some follow-up to do, and would 
like for us to schedule our next time to meet.  I don't want to establish 
these discussions as "quarterly" or "monthly" meetings at this point - I'm 
not sure what frequency would be appropriate.  We can discuss it further as a 
team.  However, I know we at least one more session and I don't want much 
time to elapse before we reconvene. 

Yvette:  Would look at a time when everyone would be availble in March, 
preferably the week of 3/6, 3/13 or 3/20.  This may be difficult to schedule 
as Daren will be working around a new baby, and others are working around 
vacation time.  I anticipate a similar structure to yesterday's, but am very 
open to other's ideas.  Please let Yvette know if you some other idea.

I also want to express my appreciation to Yvette for organizing the 
afternoon.  She did a great job!!!

Thanks to each of you!!