Message-ID: <3521817.1075854126759.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Wed, 15 Mar 2000 11:50:00 -0800 (PST)
From: rita.wynne@enron.com
To: howard.camp@enron.com, clem.cernosek@enron.com, mary.smith@enron.com, 
	jennifer.pattison@enron.com, stella.morris@enron.com, 
	jackie.young@enron.com, fred.boas@enron.com, daren.farmer@enron.com, 
	robert.lloyd@enron.com, michael.eiben@enron.com
Subject: 1999 HPL Unaccounted For
Cc: pat.clynes@enron.com, steve.venturatos@enron.com, brenda.herod@enron.com, 
	yvette.connevey@enron.com, rita.wynne@enron.com
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
Bcc: pat.clynes@enron.com, steve.venturatos@enron.com, brenda.herod@enron.com, 
	yvette.connevey@enron.com, rita.wynne@enron.com
X-From: Rita Wynne
X-To: Howard B Camp, Clem Cernosek, Mary M Smith, Jennifer D Pattison, Stella L Morris, Jackie Young, Fred Boas, Daren J Farmer, Robert E Lloyd, Michael Eiben
X-cc: Pat Clynes, Steve Venturatos, Brenda F Herod, Yvette G Connevey, Rita Wynne
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Farmer-D
X-FileName: dfarmer.nsf

Per discussions that hopefully most of you have or will have with your 
respective managers, you have been selected to be a part of a team to address 
various issues associated with reconciling and clearing 1999 UA4.  The scope 
of the team will be to work as a team, on production months where the UA4 
number per our accounting systems is considerably larger in comparison to 
what the pipeline balancing reports has as unaccounted for.  This team will 
be dedicated fully to this effort and will need to be prepared to contribute 
whatever hours are needed to get the desired results.  Yvette will be 
locating a room that we can occupy for all of this week and next week.  This 
room will be a "war room".  Everyone is expected to report to the "war room" 
on a daily basis and should expect to be there unless something EXTREMELY 
pressing causes you to have to leave or people need to go back to their 
offices to retrieve data or information.  The expectations are that this 
group will work to identify any volume discrepancies, adjustments, etc. and 
be able to either correct or quantify those volumetric adjustments by no 
later than Mar. 24, 2000.  This team is effective as of tomorrow, Mar. 16, 
2000 at 9:00 a.m.  

Yvette- please try to locate a room by then and notify the above team members 
of the location.  In the case that you are not able to find a room right 
away, please have everyone go to Brenda's office in EB3748 at 9:00 a.m.

The items on the radar screen to address in resolving volume issues are:

1.  King Ranch
2.  Gulf Plains Plant
3.  Gulf Energy Imbalance
4.  Hanover Treaters
5.  South Texas Treaters
6.  Tejas Gas P/L Imbalance
7.  Channel A/S Line Unaccounted For
8.  Third party imbalances - MOPS vs. POPS