Message-ID: <20446320.1075857070852.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Wed, 12 Apr 2000 08:50:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: vicki@risk.co.uk
To: vkamins@enron.com
Subject: Maths course
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=ANSI_X3.4-1968
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: "Vicky Windsor" <vicki@risk.co.uk>
X-To: <vkamins@enron.com>
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Kaminski-V
X-FileName: vkamins.nsf

Dear Vince,
?
Further to our telephone conversation, that you  very much for agreeing to 
participate in the financial mathematics training  course. As discussed I 
would be delighted if you could present the following  sessions:
?
PRACTICAL TECHNIQUES TO PRICE EXOTIC ENERGY  OPTIONS
?
Evaluating methodologies for pricing  exotics
??? assessing the pros and cons  of a partial differential equation
??? applying multi-factor models  to price exotic energy derivatives
??? building trees for pricing  and hedging exotics
Pricing
??? Asian options
??? Bermudan and american style  options
??? spread and spark spread  options
??? multi-commodity  options
Practical example:??? pricing  swing options
???????????????????????????????  using Monte Carlo techniques to value swing 
options
Practical example:??? pricing a  multi-commodity option
?
ANALYSING APPROACHES TO WEATHER DERIVATIVES  VALUATION
?
Understanding the mechanics of weather  derivatives
??? heating and cooling degree day  swaps
??? precipitation contracts
Applying probablistic approaches to pricing weather  derivatives
??? stochastics
??? Monte Carlo techniques
Using historical methodologies and Black-Scholes for pricing  weather 
derivatives
Valusing long term transactions
Practical example
?
Please could you let me know by the close of business on  Thursday if you 
would like to make any changes to the bullet points. I have  printed out your 
biography below and please could you also let me know if you  would like to 
make any changes to it.
?
Vince Kaminski, ENRON CAPITAL & TRADE  RESOURCES
Vince Kaminski is Vice President and Head of Research at Enron  Risk 
Management and Trading, a unit of Enron Capital & Trade Resources. Mr  
Kaminksi joined Enron in 1992. Previously he was Vice President in the 
research  department at Salomon Brothers.
?
Thanks again Vince and I? look forward to speaking to you  on Friday.
?
Best regards,
?
Vicky