Message-ID: <24332590.1075857070917.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Mon, 17 Jan 2000 12:43:00 -0800 (PST)
From: risk-ny@email.msn.com
To: vince.kaminski@enron.com
Subject: Marketing ideas for POWER 2000
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: "Emma Wolfin" <risk-ny@email.msn.com>
X-To: Vince J Kaminski
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Kaminski-V
X-FileName: vkamins.nsf

Dear Vince

I am delighted that you have agreed to take part in the Energy and Power
Risk Management 4th annual congress ? POWER 2000 ? which will be taking
place on 9 & 10 May 2000 in Houston, TX at the Houstonian.

As you know Energy and Power Risk Management Magazine has an excellent
reputation in the energy community and we want to make this event as
successful as possible.  We are currently in the process of launching the
event and researching the publications and associations mentioned during the
research for the conference to make sure that we are getting the best
coverage.   Before we complete the marketing plan for the conference we want
to be sure that we are reaching all the people who may be interested.

We constantly strive to improve the marketing of our events and therefore we
ask our speakers for further ideas and contacts. Therefore please could you
let me know whether you could help with any of the following.

Are there any particular people that you need to send brochures to? - we can
carry out any mailing on your behalf if you supply us with contact names and
addresses, alternatively I can send you a quantity of brochures

Do you have any in-house publications or a newsletter that we should insert
the course brochure into - or a diary date page that we could be included
on?

Would you like to write to your clients to invite them to attend? We can
offer them a 10% discount and can send them a letter or if you prefer to
write on your own letterhead we will organise the copying and distribution
for you.

Have you any delegate lists from events you have spoken at or attended with
a similar target audience to whom we should be sending information about the
course?

Do you have an internet site on which the course could be mentioned?

Do you have any other ideas? Any suggestions would be welcome.

Our marketing manager, Caroline Hyndman will contact you in the near future
to discuss any ideas you may have. Alternatively please give me a call on
212 925 1864 Ext 151.

Thanks very much for your help in this matter.

Best regards,

Emma

