Message-ID: <2685174.1075856605979.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Sun, 17 Dec 2000 10:17:00 -0800 (PST)
From: sandeep.kohli@enron.com
Subject: Just FYI
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Sandeep Kohli
X-To: Vince J Kaminski@ECT
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Kaminski-V
X-FileName: vkamins.nsf

Vince,

Please see below some of the ideas being bounced, FYI.  Please keep this 
confidential.

The unused capacity in Maharashtra should be dispatched on a merchant basis, 
ON BEHALF OF MSEB to any customers outside MSEB's current purview.  I would 
like us to look at the whole issue as one of MSEB's poor credit, and hence ( 
as Jeff pointed out on the call), one where we need to identify all deep 
pockets in and out of Maharashtra.
Secondly, there is (as Shubh and I had pointed out) the ability to evacuate 
about 700-1000 MW to customers other than MSEB.  The challege is - at what 
price, and in coordination with which agencies.  As always, in India your 
greatest challenge will be in dealing with govt. agencies.  
Another point to consider is that in-all we have about 5-7 customers 
identified.  Will all the customers we have earmarked bite ???  This is the 
reason why systems need to be set up with a bulletin board on pricing 10-15 
day power on the screens of the different SEBs we can connect up with.  This 
also substantially gets around the credit quality issue, as this would be an 
arrangement akin to cash-and-carry.  I see a lot of hope for such a 
strategy.  I do not see much hope for a strategy of selling blocks of power 
to either NTPC or PTC.  I would agree however, that we not put all our eggs 
in one basket, and hence you could designate a team to look into the NTPC 
sale issue inparallel.
In order to set up the trading sytems, however, we need to start by the end 
of Q1 2001, and just start doing small deals where we break even, simply to 
test the waters and introduce liquidity into the market.
Hand-in-hand with this we need a fuel risk management strategy, as I have 
been pushing for.  For this to happen, we need to get the Special Import 
Licence reinstated.  If that is not possible, we need to lobby with the 
highest authorities within govt. and RBi to allow for hedging, irrespective 
of whether we have an SIL.  The discussions being held with IOC are therefore 
very important in this regard, and I am going to get Anshuman and Mukesh 
involved with the same.
Finally, I do not see much hope for your strategy of asking ENE management 
for $75 Million to build transmission lines in a country where the regulatory 
framework on transmission access is even less defined and understood than the 
generation side of the equation.  I would refrain from stating this in any 
senior management forum until we are able to clearly demonstrate the 
cost-benefit of this.  I have some ideas on that side which I need to develop 
further.

Regards,
Sandeep.