Message-ID: <29196562.1075852995160.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Wed, 24 Oct 2001 12:19:20 -0700 (PDT)
From: terrie.james@enron.com
To: louise.kitchen@enron.com
Subject: RE: Management Conference - Business Unit Panel
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: James, Terrie </O=ENRON/OU=NA/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=TJAMES>
X-To: Kitchen, Louise </O=ENRON/OU=NA/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=Lkitchen>
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Kitchen-L
X-FileName: LKITCHEN (Non-Privileged).pst

Louise,

I absolutely agree with you about the panels the last two years -- they have been weak.  I think, though, that this should be looked at a little differently.  The purpose for this is to highlight the operations of our business and to showcase the next level of leadership.  I think rather than just focusing on one or two businesses, this format will allow us to hit each of them at a high level.  Mark will introduce each of you, talk a little about your backgrounds to help the VPs get familiar with our new leadership, and interject questions and generate discussion as appropriate.  To be honest, I see it as "rapid fire business unit presentations" as opposed to the typical panel.  

Let me know if you get a different sense from Mark.

Best,
Terrie

 -----Original Message-----
From: 	Kitchen, Louise  
Sent:	Wednesday, October 24, 2001 10:40 AM
To:	James, Terrie
Subject:	RE: Management Conference - Business Unit Panel

I'll talk to Frevert but I really thought the panel session last year was incredibly weak and don't think something of that format should be pursued again.  I would hope for a major change in format.



 -----Original Message-----
From: 	James, Terrie  
Sent:	Wednesday, October 24, 2001 9:44 AM
To:	Kitchen, Louise
Subject:	RE: Management Conference - Business Unit Panel

Yes, partly.  I saw John last week and he told me that his wife was due to deliver their second child on November 9 and he would possibly miss the conference.  However, I know Mark was also interested in having women represented and liked having both you and Janet on the panel to balance things out.

I know you'll do a great job -- you always do!

 -----Original Message-----
From: 	Kitchen, Louise  
Sent:	Tuesday, October 23, 2001 2:04 PM
To:	James, Terrie
Subject:	RE: Management Conference - Business Unit Panel

Is it me and not Lavo due to him maybe not attending

 -----Original Message-----
From: 	James, Terrie  
Sent:	Tuesday, October 23, 2001 9:07 AM
To:	Horton, Stanley; Kitchen, Louise; Sherriff, John; Mcconnell, Mike; McMahon, Jeffrey; Dietrich, Janet
Cc:	Kean, Steven J.; Olson, Cindy; Clark, Morris; Lavorato, John; Delainey, David; Daw, Nicki
Subject:	Management Conference - Business Unit Panel


Hello All,

I'm planning the agenda for this year's Management Conference.  I've been working on the upcoming meeting since March, but as you can imagine, the direction has changed several times.  

We are delighted to have General Norman Schwarzkopf delivering a keynote address on leadership, and Gary Hamel returning to help us process the past year.  While we have arranged an all-star line up of outside speakers, we also want to focus on what is happening inside Enron.  Rather than having only one or two business presentations, Mark Frevert has opted to moderate a panel to provide a high level overview of each of our primary operating units and has selected each of you to participate.

Currently, the panel is scheduled to take place 8:00-9:30am on Friday, November 16.  Please plan to present a very high level overview of your business.  You are welcome to use PowerPoint slides, but in the interest of time, presentations must be no more than 10 minutes.  Mark will introduce each of you, interject questions, encourage interaction, and ensure we stay on time. 

Below is the proposed order for your presentations.  Regardless of your place in the rundown, you will need to be seated on stage by 7:50am and equipped with a microphone.  Because we have a full agenda that morning, we will try to begin the session promptly at 8:00am.

Stan Horton - Global Services
Louise Kitchen - Americas
John Sherriff - Europe
Mike McConnell - Global Markets
Jeff McMahon - Industrial Markets
Janet Dietrich - Retail

If you elect to use a PowerPoint presentation, please forward it to me electronically by Friday, November 9 or provide the presentation to me on CD at the Management Conference.  To ensure consistancy, I've attached a PowerPoint template that I would like you to use.  

 << File: Sample Bullet Slide.ppt >> 

Finally, Mark would like to meet with the six of you to finalize preparation for the panel at 4:00pm on Wednesday, November 14 following your arrival at the Management Conference.  The meeting will take place in the Library off the Main Lobby of the Westin La Cantera.  In the meantime, if you have any questions or need any assistance, please contact me.  I look forward to working with you.

Regards,
Terrie James
Senior Director, Corporate Communication
(ph) 713.853.7727
(fax) 713.646.3248
terrie.james@enron.com