Message-ID: <29061497.1075840830568.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Thu, 3 Jan 2002 07:34:46 -0800 (PST)
From: mitch.robinson@enron.com
To: louise.kitchen@enron.com
Subject: RE: NETCO
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Robinson, Mitch </O=ENRON/OU=NA/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=MROBINS>
X-To: Kitchen, Louise </O=ENRON/OU=NA/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=LKITCHEN>
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: KITCHEN-L
X-FileName: louise kitchen 2-7-02.pst

Louise -
 
I would like to add Nick Hiemstra (manager) to the SE orig team.  He's currently in the estate group.  He previously worked for Jim Meyn running power structuring for the SE.
 
I don't know the mechanics of moving someone from the estate to the Netco, but he would be a great addition.  I plan to include him on my org chart portion.  Please let me know otherwise.
 
Mitch

-----Original Message----- 
From: Kitchen, Louise 
Sent: Wed 1/2/2002 6:43 PM 
To: Kitchen, Louise; Colwell, Wes; Hodges, Georgeanne; Milnthorp, Rob; Zufferli, John; Hedstrom, Peggy; Myers, Thomas; Bradford, William S.; Will, Lloyd; Beck, Sally; Hall, Bob M; Presto, Kevin M.; Forster, David; Reeves, Leslie; Gaskill, Chris; Superty, Robert; Lagrasta, Fred; Luce, Laura; Tycholiz, Barry; Redmond, Brian; Vickers, Frank; Gossett, Jeffrey C.; Arnold, John; Grigsby, Mike; Allen, Phillip K.; Neal, Scott; Martin, Thomas A.; Shively, Hunter S.; Rub, Jenny; Webb, Jay; Haedicke, Mark E.; Buy, Rick; Calger, Christopher F.; Duran, W. David; Robinson, Mitch; Curry, Mike; Heizenrader, Tim; Belden, Tim; Steffes, James D.; Aucoin, Berney C. ; Roberts, Mike A.; Oxley, David 
Cc: Lavorato, John; Schoppe, Tammie 
Subject: RE: NETCO



Organisational Charts have been requested by one of the potential Buyers.  Please send to Tammie by close of play tomorrow.

Thanks 

 -----Original Message----- 
From:   Kitchen, Louise  
Sent:   Monday, December 31, 2001 12:54 PM 
To:     Colwell, Wes; Hodges, Georgeanne; Milnthorp, Rob; Zufferli, John; Hedstrom, Peggy; Myers, Thomas; Bradford, William S.; Will, Lloyd; Beck, Sally; Hall, Bob M; Presto, Kevin M.; Forster, David; Reeves, Leslie; Gaskill, Chris; Superty, Robert; Lagrasta, Fred; Luce, Laura; Tycholiz, Barry; Redmond, Brian; Vickers, Frank; Gossett, Jeffrey C.; Arnold, John; Grigsby, Mike; Allen, Phillip K.; Neal, Scott; Martin, Thomas A.; Shively, Hunter S.; Wynne, Rita; Rub, Jenny; Webb, Jay; Haedicke, Mark E.; Buy, Rick; Calger, Christopher F.; Duran, W. David; Robinson, Mitch; Curry, Mike; Heizenrader, Tim; Belden, Tim; White, Stacey W.; Steffes, James D.; Aucoin, Berney C. ; Roberts, Mike A.; Oxley, David

Cc:     Lavorato, John 
Subject:        NETCO 

The New Year has arrived and we really to finalize a lot of the work with regards to moving into NETCO.  Obviously we still do not have a deal but the deadline is approaching and preparations need to be finalized.

The main areas to focus on over the next week are:- 

(i)     Re-start/Integration Plans (due on Jan 7)                               To be forwarded to Louise       
        These plans need to be detailed and show clear detailed timelines and detailed responsibilities for getting us up and running as soon as possible.  

        The current restart date is January 21, 2001 but may be pushed forward to January 14, 2002.     
(ii)    Budget (due Jan 3, 2002)                                                To be forwarded to Faith Killen 
        First year budget to include all start up costs (some of which can be amortized) 
(iii)   Seating Plans                                                           Tammy Shepperd to co-ordinate 
        We need to start the planning process for seating as we will be living on floors 5 & 6 of the Enron South building.

        I have asked Tammy Shepperd to commence the seating plan and we would look to start the moves as soon as possible but with a large number occuring around January 11,2002.

(iv)    Due Diligence 
        We continue the process with two new companies this week (Wednesday and Thursday). Andy Zipper is taking the lead for the company arriving on Wednesday, please help him with his requirements.

I would ask that both John and I are notified of any changes to the Netco personnel list on a timely fashion and that the list is maintained on a continual basis.  Please forward all alterations to Jeanie Slone who has responsibility for the master list.

Communication - I believe that the New Year combined with a internal communication issues may be a good time to review what we want to say on Netco and what our policies are.  I am asking David Oxley to co-ordinate with all of you on this.  I know a lot of you believe that we need to only communicate once we have retention programme in place for the estate which may be a good idea but we we need to make sure that we lose as few people as possible.

If you are unavailable this week, please ensure you delegate this work out. 

Happy New Year 

Louise 