Message-ID: <30662059.1075840839447.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Wed, 28 Nov 2001 08:55:38 -0800 (PST)
From: chris.lonsdale@enron.com
To: louise.kitchen@enron.com
Subject: RE: Hello
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Lonsdale, Chris </O=ENRON/OU=EU/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=CLONSDAL>
X-To: Kitchen, Louise </O=ENRON/OU=NA/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=LKITCHEN>
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: KITCHEN-L
X-FileName: louise kitchen 2-7-02.pst

All devastated here - really sorry. Best of luck, keep in touch over next few days

 -----Original Message-----
From: 	Kitchen, Louise  
Sent:	20 November 2001 14:55
To:	Lonsdale, Chris
Subject:	RE: Hello

You will be popular, Jonathan W seems very excited about the new position he's in.   I presume he assumes we'll all be working for him - not necessarily bad news though.

Things are very much getting back to normal here - we actually didn't work this week-end!

Where did the Chris come from - did you drop the 'tine'?



 -----Original Message-----
From: 	Lonsdale, Chris  
Sent:	Tuesday, November 20, 2001 5:49 AM
To:	Kitchen, Louise
Subject:	RE: Hello

Dear Louise
Sorry I haven't got back before - can't imagine why! How I things with you - here people seem to be going thru the various stages of mourning; I think we're between anger and resignation right now. As the only ex-Dynegy person here my popularity has shot up - things were put in perspective when someone asked me if there were any good-looking blokes in Dynegy!
Answers to your much earlier questions - Jonathan & Lesley were surprised and amused when I congratulated them some while ago on their marriage - they clearly weren't & I don't think that's changed.
Jennifer got a decent package out of Powergen, went to TXU where she spent a great time skiing in Geneva with the family and then got another good payoff. She then went on to EdeF to advise them how to manage/renegotiate their long-term contracts (sound familiar?) - I think she just wanted to consult but they offered her a full time job. Got the distinct impression she's regretting accepting it as she has to commute, work in an open-plan office (where ordering curtains, beauty treatments etc is not very private business!) and deal with the French. Haven't seen her since the summer tho' and haven't seen Caroline for years. She's just waiting for the Hess sale to see whether she's wanted - timetable's slipped a bit and probably won't be completed until March or later. I will have to get back in touch as I might need some old friends.
Jonathan W. and Dave Redmond started at Dynegy Monday so inside info should be available. 
Keep in touch and keep the faith
Best Wishes
Christine


 -----Original Message-----
From: 	Kitchen, Louise  
Sent:	25 September 2001 00:13
To:	Lonsdale, Christine
Subject:	RE: Hello


Did Jonathan and Lesley ever get married?

Marcus spoke to Caroline last week and said she wasn't very happy.  It would probably be great for Caroline to do something else.  

I have no opportunity to get to London at all as I have no dealings with anyone in London any more.  I do speak to Marcello and Matthew Scrimshaw regularly and keep up on the gossip although there frankly doesn't seem to be much.

Whatever happened to Jennifer - I was thinking about her the other day as I saw Mike Gibbons is still a Director of PowerGen.  

Are you coming over here at all - it would be great to see you over this side of the water.  David Hutchinson is coming over next month.

Louise


 -----Original Message-----
From: 	Lonsdale, Christine  
Sent:	Monday, September 24, 2001 2:43 AM
To:	Kitchen, Louise
Subject:	RE: Hello

Hi Louise
Yes, thought I'd follow in your footsteps but a bit late in the day for me to catch up! Dynegy was no longer the place to be.
Working for Mr Crilly which is interesting - Andy & co are a great bunch of guys on the trading desk. I'm staying off the phones (too old for all that) and am doing "strategy" - will get them sorted out here in the end!
Saw Lesley and Jonathan at their house warming a couple of weeks ago - they were looking good (even Jonathan) and the house was lovely. Lesley would love to see you if you're ever over (so would I). Things might not be too good for Caroline - Hess Marketing up for sale


 -----Original Message-----
From: 	Kitchen, Louise  
Sent:	21 September 2001 18:00
To:	Lonsdale, Christine
Subject:	Hello

Just saw your name on a report for the first time.  Are you here now?  How's it going so far?