Message-ID: <370428.1075856589697.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Thu, 4 Jan 2001 02:22:00 -0800 (PST)
From: sandeep.kohli@enron.com
Subject: Re:
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Sandeep Kohli
X-To: Stinson Gibner@ECT, Vince J Kaminski@ECT
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Kaminski-V
X-FileName: vkamins.nsf

Vince/Stinson,

The note below gives us the authorization to proceed.  I have received no 
comments from Wade on my signing, but I have his approval for the study, so I 
will proceed on that basis.

Since we do not have any format of confidentiality agreement from Jim, let us 
use the one signed by the legal team for the Japan study by Henwood.  In this 
reference, could you (Stinson) get this from either Heather Mitchell, or John 
Viverito (who is the lawyer involved with Japan, reporting to Alan 
Aronowitz).  We could use that as template and proceed before Friday on that 
basis.

Regards,
Sandeep.
---------------------- Forwarded by Sandeep Kohli/ENRON_DEVELOPMENT on 
01/03/2001 10:17 PM ---------------------------


James A Hughes
01/03/2001 11:08 PM
To: Sandeep Kohli/ENRON_DEVELOPMENT@ENRON_DEVELOPMENT
cc: Wade Cline/ENRON_DEVELOPMENT@ENRON_DEVELOPMENT 
Subject: Re:  

I have already given authorization to proceed.  However, I did not know we 
were providing the data.  That is the thing I am looking for most - the raw 
information on what the grid and stack looks like.  We need this ASAP.  How 
do we get this done quickly?

Jim




Sandeep Kohli
01/02/2001 10:55 PM
To: Wade Cline/ENRON_DEVELOPMENT@ENRON_DEVELOPMENT, James A 
Hughes/ENRON_DEVELOPMENT@ENRON_DEVELOPMENT
cc:  

Subject: 

Wade/Jim,

My apologies for missing the conference calls yesterday and today.  I was not 
able to download my messages in time for the calls, but I will be on going 
forward.

While I am still on vacation, I have been in conversation with Vince and the 
Research Group following up on the Henwood study we had spoken about.  We 
have received a formal proposal from Henwood, and they are wanting 
authorization to go forward.  The study will get us the despatch forecasts 
for the next 8-10 years, and will deliver the results by January end, per 
Henwood.

Vince and I have reviewed the proposal, and feel that we should proceed.  We 
will be fine tuning the assignment as we go forward.  The big issue there is 
the data for the model/s, and at this point Henwood is relying more on us to 
provide the data.  We spoke to Henwood yesterday, and I will be on another 
call with them on Friday.

I need your confirmation on the following:

That I have your approval to proceed ahead with the study 
That the study shall be paid for by DPC, and if so, is it OK for me to sign 
the authorization being sent by Henwood
We will need a formal confidentiality agreement to be in place by tomorrow 
(Jim - if you have a particular format, please let me know)
I am leaving the issue of hourly rates and cost to the Research group since 
they have more experience in dealing with groups like Henwood.  They feel the 
costs are reasonable, and I will leave it at that.

We will need to collect data from the different sources we have in India, and 
I have proposed that there be a formal session in India between Henwood and 
the ENE team in India in the week between 10th and 15th.  This is important 
to insure that there are no disconnects, and that there are no illusions on 
the quality of the data that will be available.  It will also help us 
formalize the scope and better define the issues.  In order to meet the 
deadlines, the data will have to be in place by January 15th.

I will call Jim later today (I had called but you were on a call).  I am here 
till the weekend when I leave for India.  Please let me know if this 
arrangement is OK.

Regards,
Sandeep.



