Message-ID: <4458880.1075856593245.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Fri, 28 Jul 2000 08:23:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: amy.oberg@enron.com
To: vince.kaminski@enron.com, rick.buy@enron.com, mark.koenig@enron.com, 
	richard.causey@enron.com
Subject: Enron and The New Economy Value Research Lab
Cc: steven.kean@enron.com
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
Bcc: steven.kean@enron.com
X-From: Amy Oberg
X-To: Vince J Kaminski, Rick Buy, Mark Koenig, Richard Causey
X-cc: Steven J Kean
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Kaminski-V
X-FileName: vkamins.nsf

Gentlemen:

Enron is exploring the possibility of becoming involved in a research 
endeavor called the New Economy Value Research Lab. The Lab is the result of 
a joint effort between MIT's Sloan School of Management and Arthur Andersen 
(AA). Its purpose is to develop "quantitative valuations of the intangible 
assets Wall Street finds increasingly important in the New Economy" (Business 
Week, 2/7/00). Clearly, as Enron continues to shift from a hard asset to 
intangible asset based organization, the question of "how to" accurately and 
appropriate measure and value our intangible assets is becoming increasingly 
important.

Last week, Steve Kean, Vince Kaminski, Marie Hejka, and myself met with a 
team from AA, the Deputy Dean of the Sloan School, and MIT's lead 
accounting/finance professor to discuss the intent of the Lab, expected 
outcomes, and how Enron may be involved. Post that meeting, the decision was 
made to continue to explore participation in the Lab. Enron now needs to 1) 
define our corporate measurement and valuation process needs, and 2) identify 
value attributes important to Enron and the industries in which we operate. 
Once defined, a follow up meeting will be held with MIT and next steps will 
be determined.

Your expertise and assistance could significantly impact the inputs and 
outcomes of these next steps. Please schedule time on Tuesday August 1 from  
2:00 to 3:30 to attend the next meeting, during which we will begin to 
identify needs and define value attributes. Location will be EB 49c4. Please 
notify me if you are unable to attend.

Lastly, to assist with preparation for this meeting, I am attaching notes 
from a recently published book entitled  Cracking the Value Code: How 
Businesses Are Creating Wealth in the New Economy (May 2000, Boulton, Libert, 
Samek - Arthur Andersen).  

Should you like more information on the Lab, previous meeting, book or other, 
please feel free to contact me.

I look forward to meeting you.
Regards,
Amy Oberg




