Message-ID: <3486180.1075856593760.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Sun, 25 Jun 2000 16:16:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: dale.nesbitt@marketpointinc.com
To: vkamins@enron.com
Subject: Impending Visit July 5-7
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: "Dale Nesbitt" <dale.nesbitt@marketpointinc.com>
X-To: "Vincent Kaminski" <vkamins@enron.com>
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Kaminski-V
X-FileName: vkamins.nsf

Vince:

I plan to be in Houston on July 5-7.  I would like very much to get together
with you and perhaps your investment guy on Friday morning on the 7th if you
and/or he have the time or perhaps on the 5th in the afternoon.  I would
like to continue the discussions about your using MarketPoint and about your
investment guy considering MarketPoint if he is interested.  When you see
the progress we have made, I think you will agree that it merits
consideration as a part of enrononline.com as well as a profitable
investment in its own right.  It is still in the situation where it can be
provided exclusively to whomever I choose; I have been very, very careful
how I have promoted it so that I do not get committed to a second-rate
partner.

I also have what I think is a fundamentally new, general Markovian forward
optionality evaluator.  I wrote my Ph.D. dissertation at Stanford in the
1970s (defended with honors) in semi-Markovian decision processes during the
heyday of that research, and I have seen direct applications in optionality
evaluation.  I think you will be fascinated to see and review it. It is
presently implemented in prototype form and it could be made available to
the first large retainer client on an exclusive basis who is sufficiently
interested.  If you want to be that retainer client, that would be of
interest to me.

Give me a shout via return email or by my cell phone at 650.218.3069
regarding schedule.  I am out of town this week but available via email or
phone at the above addresses.

I really hope we can get together that week if we possibly can.  Thanks very
much for considering my request, and thanks very much for being the go
between with your investment guy.  I deeply appreciate it.  I hope to see
you on the 5th or 7th.

Dale Nesbitt