Message-ID: <11601875.1075860955868.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Thu, 14 Mar 2002 07:22:17 -0800 (PST)
From: bruno@firstconf.com
To: energynews@fc.ease.lsoft.com
Subject:      t,h: Eyeforenergy Update
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=ANSI_X3.4-1968
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Bruno Russell <Bruno@FIRSTCONF.COM>
X-To: ENERGYNEWS@FC.EASE.LSOFT.COM
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Lokay-M
X-FileName: mlokay (Non-Privileged).pst

Welcome to this week's Eyeforenergy Update.  Just to refresh your memories,
this update is sent to you, alternating each week with the main Eyeforenergy
Briefing to let you know of any developments on the Eyeforenergy.com
website, including publication of new stories, whitepapers and special
features, as well as the latest news on our upcoming conferences.

If you visit our homepage www.eyeforenergy.com, you will see that our newest
Featured Content is a special report, commissioned by Norsk Hydro ASA and
produced by the Center for International Climate and Environmental Research
- Oslo.  This takes a look at the current status of climate negotiations and
the Kyoto agreement, particularly after COP7 towards the end of last year.
It's most interesting aspect for Eyeforenergy readers is how it takes a look
at implications for business in terms of compliance, mechanisms and funding,
even for countries which have chosen not to ratify Kyoto such as the USA.
Scroll down the page to read the full report...

On the same subject, early discounted registration is now available for our
CO2 Trading: The North American Market conference, 18-20 June in Chicago,
which already has companies such as DuPont, Entergy, TransAlta, Natsource,
Entergy and Cinergy on board.  Look out for the full program for this event,
which will be published on our website tomorrow.  We can also announce that
the number of industries who will be talking about their energy management
strategies for the first time at Strategy Energy Management USA is growing,
including the likes of International Paper, North Star Steel, Nestl? and
more.  Keep an Eye on future Eyeforenergy Updates for more information as it
becomes available.

Lastly, we are now taking early no-obligation applications for our
forthcoming members only Premium Content subscription area, which will
entitle you to a discount off the already very low price.  See down for
further details...

Bruno Russell
mailto:bruno@eyeforenergy.com


CONTENTS:

   -  NEW ARTICLE - An evaluation of business implications of the Kyoto
Protocol

   -  APPLY EARLY FOR EYEFORENERGY PREMIUM CONTENT AND RECEIVE A DISCOUNT

   -  EVENTS UPDATE - New case studies for Strategic Energy Management

   -  RECENT HEADLINES


NEW WHITEPAPER

An evaluation of business implications of the Kyoto Protocol

This report was originally commissioned by Norsk Hydro ASA, and it's aim is
to present and analyze the newest developments in the climate negotiations,
particularly the seventh Conference of the Parties to the Climate Convention
in Marrakech, Morocco, in October/November 2001, and to provide an
evaluation of what the finalized Kyoto Protocol means for business.

Eyeforenergy thanks and acknowledges the author Dr Asbj?rn Torvanger
(asbjorn.torvanger@cicero.uio.no) and CICERO (Center for International
Climate and Environmental Research - Oslo), on whose website it was
originally presented.

Click here to read the full article:
http://www.eyeforenergy.com/content.asp?news=26642


APPLY EARLY FOR EYEFORENERGY PREMIUM CONTENT AND RECEIVE A DISCOUNT:

We will very shortly be launching our first ever members only Premium
Content area on the website.  This subscription-based service is aimed at
those who wish to have access to the wealth of the exclusive and up-to-date
information, case studies, company strategies and knowledge which are
presented at Eyeforenergy conferences.  As well as having access a community
for subscribers to easily find and contact each other, you will have full
and unrestricted access to full conference proceedings, including speaker
presentations and transcriptions of speeches and panel discussions.
Furthermore, any paying subscriber will get a full REFUND on their fee if
they purchase an Eyeforenergy conference pass within their annual
subscription period.  Alternatively, subscription is FREE for a year to all
our paying conference delegates.

A year's subscription will be worth US$400 per annum, but if you are
thinking of subscribing and let us know before the launch at the end of
March, we can offer you a $50 discount off this low price.  Simply complete
this form to be kept informed of the launch details:
http://www.eyeforenergy.com/premium.shtml


EVENTS UPDATE

* Energy Exchanges Online III
  Sheraton Hotel, New Orleans
  19-21 September, 2002

Now in its 3rd Year!!  Energy trading has never been more important or more
important than today. New systems and software continue come onto the
market... market leaders find themselves out of business... trading
portfolios continue to expand into new energy types and new derivatives...

Where can you go to network with the important players in the field? Where
can you get expert appraisal of your risk strategies? Where can you find out
about the latest trading tools that can make your operations more efficient
and more secure? The answer is New Orleans this September at the Energy
Exchanges Online conference and exhibition.

For more information, go to:
http://www.eyeforenergy.com/eeo3


* CO2 Trading 2002: The North American Market
  The Radisson Hotel, Chicago
  19-21 June 2002

Thank you to everyone who has already registered an interest in the
forthcoming CO2 Trading 2002: The North American Market - June 18-20,
Radisson Hotel, Chicago.  The program is just one week away from being
finalized and the brochure with full details will be mailed out mid-March.
If you haven't yet requested a copy please do so now by completing the form
at www.eyeforenergy.com/co2.

Interest is also mounting in the attached Exhibition. Space is strictly
limited to 20 stands, continuing Eyeforenergy's tradition of offering a high
quality, industry led conference with a focused, relevant exhibition
creating an ideal environment for networking in coffee breaks.  Applications
to exhibit should be made to Robert Wolstenholme, Sales Manager, on +44 20
7375 7195, mailto:bobw@eyeforenergy.com.

Please send any program/speaker enquiries to Sarah Robinson, Conference
Director, on +44 20 7375 7555, mailto:srobinson@eyeforenergy.com.


* Strategic Energy Management USA 2002
  Park Hyatt Hotel, Philadelphia
  24-25 June 2002

Energy Management has never been more important than today. As the energy
sector continues to deregulate, energy managers are finding themselves
increasingly faced with new players, new tools and new choices. A solid
strategy which can navigate the challenges of intense competition, online
developments and a volatile market supply is crucial to your business.

This June in Philadelphia, and for the first time ever, all the major
industries will be discussing their energy management strategies.
International Paper, North Star Steel, the Children's Hospital of
Philadelphia and Nestl? are just some of the companies who will outline how
they purchase and manage their energy supplies. If you are involved in
energy procurement, make sure you're in Philadelphia this June at the
Strategic Energy Management USA conference and exhibition.

To find out more or get involved, simply register your interest at
http://www.eyeforenergy.com/sem, email Meabh Quoirin at
mailto:mquoirin@eyeforenergy.com or call +44 20 7375 7158.


LATEST HEADLINES

Shareholders Bless Conoco-Phillips Merger
http://www.eyeforenergy.com/content.asp?news=26682

Energy Virtual Partners Open for Business, Offer Asset Management Solution
http://www.eyeforenergy.com/content.asp?news=26681

Hyprotech, Sulphur Experts Announce Breakthrough in Gas Processing
Technology
http://www.eyeforenergy.com/content.asp?news=26679

Environmental Report One Third of US Plants Given a Free Ride on Pollution
http://www.eyeforenergy.com/content.asp?news=26678

Dark Cloud Covers Florida Solar Initiatives
http://www.eyeforenergy.com/content.asp?news=26677

BofA Taps Former Enron Power Traders, Enters Volatile Market
http://www.eyeforenergy.com/content.asp?news=26676

SEC Snares PricewaterhouseCoopers, Sets Sights on Hanover Compressor
http://www.eyeforenergy.com/content.asp?news=26675

BP Pushing the Envelope on Global Warming
http://www.eyeforenergy.com/content.asp?news=26674


------------------------------------------------------------
This update is provided as part of the free Eyeforenergy Briefing service.
In addition to these updates, you will receive a comprehensive newsletter
every
other week, with fresh in-depth analysis, reports and insights into the
issues currently affecting different areas of the energy industry.

To subscribe,
email:   <mailto:energynews-subscribe-request@fc.ease.lsoft.com>
or alternatively send a message to
         <mailto:bruno@eyeforenergy.com?Subject=BriefingSubscribe>

To unsubscribe,
email:   <mailto:energynews-signoff-request@fc.ease.lsoft.com>
or alternatively send a message to
         <mailto:bruno@eyeforenergy.com?Subject=BriefingUnSubscribe>