Message-ID: <32643233.1075855894740.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Mon, 3 Apr 2000 10:26:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: george.hope@enron.com
To: sally.beck@enron.com
Subject: Please Read
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: George Hope
X-To: Sally Beck
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Beck-S
X-FileName: sbeck.nsf

Sally,
 I tried to get on your calendar but you are busy this week so I decide to 
send you a very important e-mail. You told me to contact you if I was ever 
considering leaving my current job so I am doing so at this time. I want to 
say that I have thoroughly enjoyed working with you and you are the most 
impressive employee at Enron at any level. I feel comfortable speaking with 
you and appreciate all of your advice. I am not totally unhappy with the 
recruiting part of my job, I just feel that I do not "buy into" everything 
that is happening in my group. There are many necessary changes that are 
needed and I feel that the program is heading in an excellent direction. I 
just want to get into more of a sales oriented part of Enron because I feel 
that my strength is selling. I would like to at least get an interview with 
Enron Broadband because I know that they are filling up there retail sales 
groups. Although I do not have all the technical experience, I know people 
who have gone over there with no technical or no sales experience. As you 
know, it is who you know and I do not have a relationship with David Cox or 
any of the
retail folks in broadband. I was hoping that you would give David a call and 
see if he could at least give me an interview in one of the retail groups. 
Brent has called over to David and I feel if you were to call also, it would 
help.
 Sally, let me know if this will be ok and I would like to get on your 
calendar to discuss further. Nobody in my group knows that I am looking for 
another job so please keep this confidential. I can not tell  how much I 
value your opinion and advice in matters especially  like these. Thank you so 
much and I look forward 
to hearing from you soon.
   George Hope 