Message-ID: <17605233.1075849858788.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Tue, 20 Mar 2001 04:49:00 -0800 (PST)
From: lexi.elliott@enron.com
To: sally.beck@enron.com
Subject: Directions To Enron Hangar
Cc: patti.thompson@enron.com
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
Bcc: patti.thompson@enron.com
X-From: Lexi Elliott
X-To: Sally Beck
X-cc: Patti Thompson
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: BECK-S
X-FileName: sbeck.nsf

Directions to Enron Corp. Aviation
From Downtown:

Take I-45 North to I-10 East.  The 3rd exit is Hardy Toll Road (You will see 
Irvington Blvd., Hardy Road, then Hardy Toll Road).  Continue on Toll Road 
until you come to forst booth (pay $1.00).  Continue on Toll Road until the 
next exit which is Rankin Road.  Exit Rankin (there will be another toll 
booth (pay .25 cents).  Take a right on Rankin and continue to the next light 
which is Aldine Westfield.  Cross through this light (Police Academy will be 
on the left-hand side of road), and continue on Rankin until you can take 
your first left which is Chanute Road.  (You will see a large Hangar that has 
Allied Signal Garrett Aviation written on it--this is Chanute Road.)  Turn 
left on Chanute and continue on this road until you come to the last group of 
buildings.  Take a right down drive and go all the way to the end.  You will 
dead end into our fence.  On a post on the right-hand side of the fence are 
the numbers 17630 -- that is our address.  There is a black phone on the 
left.  You need to pick up this phone to be admitted.

I-45 going South or North:

Continue on I-45 until you come to Kuykendahl/Rankin Road Exit.  Take left 
under freeway if you are going South on I-45 and continue on Rankin Road.  
Take a right off of freeway if you are going North on I-45 and at the light, 
take a Rignt on Rankin Road...(Main lights you will come to are at Hardy 
Road, the Hardy Toll Road and Aldine-Westfield).  Cross through light at 
Aldine-Westfield and take first left to Chanute Road.  Follow above 
instructions from there...

From Hwy 59 going South or North:

Hwy 59 to Greens Road Exit.  Proceed on Greens Road until you come to a light 
at JFK Blvd.  Go through this light and take a right at the next light which 
is Rankin Road.  Continue on Rankin until you can see the back side of the 
Allied Signal Garrett Aviation Hangar.  Turn right at this Hangar--this is 
Chanute Road.  Go to last group of buildings and turn right down that drive.  
Go to end.  Above fence on right-hand side are the numbers 17630.  This is 
our address.  Pick up phone on left to be admitted.