Message-ID: <2549835.1075855894064.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Mon, 25 Sep 2000 07:21:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: tjacobs@ou.edu
To: sally.beck@enron.com
Subject: RE: Oklahoma Trip
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: "Jacobs, Ted K" <tjacobs@ou.edu>
X-To: "'Sally.Beck@enron.com'" <Sally.Beck@enron.com>
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Beck-S
X-FileName: sbeck.nsf

Certainly understand the tradition you have with OU/Texas and it would be
hard. I imagine David is starting to feel a little cocky, given we should be
undefeated going into Texas, but he may still need to seek the shelter of
the study, as I know Texas is not going to roll over and play dead.

Sounds like Meagan has a full agenda this Fall and a trip to Norman would
only get in the way. I'm sure David will not let the fire die, if she is
truly interested in OU. FYI, OU's Spring Break is March 17-25 next year. So
you can plan accordingly. Let me know if you decide when you decide to come
up and I can get you lined up with Prospective Student Services for a tour.
Also, I remember you telling me about your concerns about grades. I know
that OU requires a 24 on the ACT, or finish in the top 1/3 of your
graduating class. It is my understanding that will soon be increasing to 26
or top 30% of graduating class. Looks like OU is following UT on tightening
entrance requirements.

I can get you shirts caps, sweatshirts, etc. for OU, UT and Tech. You can go
to Bigtimesports.com and look at the styles. I think they are also in the
school colors. If you see a style you like, let me know the size shape and
school and I can order it. If some of it is for you, let me know, as they
have different styles for women. Also, I can have logo's etc. reduced (like
I did on your Bevo on your shirt) so they are not so big. I always have them
reduce the OU from 1 3/4" to a
1 1/4" size, so I don't look like a "poster boy" for OU. Anyway, let me know
and I will order them for you.

Let me know when you hear back from Lexi about your discussion relative to
summer internship recruiting.



Ted K. Jacobs
Director of Energy Management
The University of Oklahoma
307 West Brooks, Room 218
Norman, OK  73019-4007
(405)325-0758
Fax (405)325-2096
E-mail: tjacobs@ou.edu
Website: www.ou.edu/business/em


-----Original Message-----
From: Sally.Beck@enron.com [mailto:Sally.Beck@enron.com]
Sent: Monday, September 25, 2000 1:23 PM
To: Jacobs, Ted K
Subject: RE: Oklahoma Trip



Thanks for looking into the OU/Texas tickets for us.  With the ages of the
kids, I think that we will pass on those single tickets.  The kids love our
home tradition for the game, and weren't sure that they wanted to give that
up. (I have cake pans in the shape of the state of Texas and the state of
Oklahoma - one daugther decorates one, and the other decorates the second
cake - add some bean dip and chips and it's our own version of a tailgate
party!)

We were hoping to bring Meagan up to look at OU this fall, with our eye on
that last game of the season. However, Klein High School has started the
football season very strongly, winning all games to date.  That means that
we may be headed for high school playoffs again this year.  Meagan is on
the drill team and must be at all games.  Last year, we played right up to
Thanksgiving in the playoffs.  So, we have decided to pick a weekend in the
spring after drill team contest season is over to make that trip with
Meagan.

We are interested in caps, shirts, etc. for UT, OU and Texas Tech.  Do you
have a list of what is available for those schools?




"Jacobs, Ted K" <tjacobs@ou.edu> on 09/23/2000 03:07:11 PM

To:   "'Sally.Beck@enron.com'" <Sally.Beck@enron.com>
cc:
Subject:  RE: Oklahoma Trip


Thanks for the nice words. I hope Enron will be able to look at some
students for summer internships, as I am sure they will be gone by Spring.

As far as Texas tickets go, I can come up with 5 singles, but not 5
together
or even 3 and 2. Let me know if interested and I will try to get them.
Might
be able to trade up or something.

Let me know what other schools you are talking about and I can find out for
you.

Again, thank you for taking time out your schedule to come up and be a part
of the OU recruiting effort. It has been your support and efforts that we
have to thank for Enron coming to OU. Keep me posted on what you work out
with HR with regards to summer interns.

"Hook Em"

Ted K. Jacobs
Director of Energy Management
The University of Oklahoma
307 West Brooks, Room 218
Norman, OK  73019-4007
(405)325-0758
Fax (405)325-2096
E-mail: tjacobs@ou.edu
Website: www.ou.edu/business/em


-----Original Message-----
From: Sally.Beck@enron.com [mailto:Sally.Beck@enron.com]
Sent: Friday, September 22, 2000 5:30 PM
To: Jacobs, Ted K
Subject: Oklahoma Trip



It was good to see you in Norman earlier this week.  As always, I
appreciated your attendance at the presentation and at Coach's afterwards.
I am sure that it is rewarding for you to see former students such as Jody
and Nate participating on the other side of the recruiting table.  You have
done a great job in changing and promoting the program.

I am pushing Lexi to resolve the question around interview dates for summer
interns ASAP.  I have also left Mike McConnell a message to make him aware
of the issue.  I should be able to get back with you next week, hopefully
with a change in our strategy!

If you do become aware of five OU /Texas tickets, please let me know.  We
will certainly purchase them, I just made the assumption that all tickets
may already be sold.

On another note, David has worn his OU shirt to work and has gotten lots of
compliments.  He has a number of people that have asked him about school
shirts, caps, etc.  Do you have a list of the schools that you can get
merchandise for and the types of merchandise that you can get?  Let me know
-- we can probably place a few orders through you!

