Message-ID: <25333465.1075855894332.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Fri, 1 Sep 2000 10:12:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: geynille.dillingham@enron.com
To: cindy.olson@enron.com, jean.mrha@enron.com, mariella.mahan@enron.com, 
	andrea.reed@enron.com, sally.beck@enron.com, michelle.cash@enron.com, 
	jennifer.fraser@enron.com, stephanie.goldman@enron.com, 
	grace.kim@enron.com, richard.schneider@enron.com, 
	carol.marshall@enron.com, molly.hellerman@enron.com, 
	elizabeth.shim@enron.com, kim.wilkie@enron.com
Subject: Wellesley Team Meeting Minutes
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Geynille Dillingham
X-To: Cindy Olson, Jean Mrha, Mariella Mahan, Andrea V Reed, Sally Beck, Michelle Cash, Jennifer Fraser, Stephanie Goldman, Grace Kim, Richard Schneider, Carol Jean Marshall, Molly Hellerman, Elizabeth Shim, Kim Wilkie
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Beck-S
X-FileName: sbeck.nsf

I would like to thank everyone for participating in the first Wellesley Team 
Meeting.  I regret the delay in processing the minutes.  The career placement 
center has been really busy and I needed to contact them to get some of the 
questions answered from the meeting.  For those of you who were unable to 
attend, I have listed the topics of discussion:

Goals for Wellesley - Hiring goal of 4 (not limited to)
Analyst Program changes - Structure ( Team Leaders), Developmental Program, 2 
day interview process
Interview Training Workshop - Everyone that will be interviewing is required 
to attend a 2 hour session
Roles and Responsibilities - Role of team members, Participation is tracked 
for PRC recognition.
Wellesley Campus Plan
 - We discussed the presentation time being pushed back.  I was able to get 
it pushed back to 5:00  o'clock at the latest.  There are other companies 
scheduled to present on that date and that was the  latest time we coud get.  
There will be no class conflicts on that date (September 28, 2000).   We  
discussed the attire for the presentation being casual (jeans).  That concept 
was  proposed to the  career placement center Assistant (Bernice Tita) and 
she said that casual attire will be well received.   We would need to just 
indicate it when we publicize the event.
 - We discussed changing the interview dates due to scheduling conflicts.  
The dates that we were  able to get were November 20th and 21st. 
 - We discussed possible recruiting at neighboring schools(Smith & Mt. Holy 
Oke)
 - We discussed taking the company jet to some or all the events, especially 
when we will be   involving recruiting efforts at the neighboring schools.
Target Groups -  Economic Student Board Association, All majors

I have forwarded the Wellesley recruiting guide to those of you who were 
unable to attend.  If you have not received it by now, please contact me and 
I will get one to you a.s.a.p.

I have meetings scheduled with Jean Mrha and Cindy Olson to work on the 
participants for the events and afterwards I will get the revised campus plan 
to the team.  If you have any questions regarding the contents of this e-mail 
or other Wellesley recruiting questions, feel free to contact me at any time.

Thanks, Geynille





Thanks a million, 

Geynille
