Message-ID: <7365370.1075855894355.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Tue, 29 Aug 2000 03:02:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: jody.crook@enron.com
To: sally.beck@enron.com
Subject: OU Recruiting
Cc: lexi.elliott@enron.com
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
Bcc: lexi.elliott@enron.com
X-From: Jody Crook
X-To: Sally Beck
X-cc: Lexi Elliott
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Beck-S
X-FileName: sbeck.nsf

Sally,

Over the past year or so Enron has made a great impact at the University of 
Oklahoma.  In a very short time we have become one of the employers of
of choice within the College of Business.  We have been able to do this by 
paying attention to details and going beyond the necessary.  We have formed
great relationships and planted seeds that will reap benefits for years to 
come, if we do not become complacent.  I for one am an example of the 
impression
that Enron has forged at OU.  I am here because I believe that Enron 
represents one of the greatest opportunities in not only the energy industry, 
but the 
but the business world in general.

I am sending this note because I believe we are taking steps that will lessen 
our momentum at the University of Oklahoma.   I have learned that we will
not be sponsoring any entertainment for our presentation this fall.   As you 
know, last year we sponsored a hypnotist and a drama team for entertainment 
after our presentations.  Being a student at the time I felt this was a great 
idea and I know that my fellow students enjoyed the presentations as well.  
They felt that it was a great opportunity to gain insight from Enron 
representatives as well enjoy the entertainment which we provided.  As I 
understand the A/A program now takes the position that this does not provide 
any residual value for Enron and does not warrant the expense.  I do not 
understand this reasoning and feel that there is great value in such an 
arrangement.  It places another selling point on our presentation and gives 
us a better opportunity to familiarize ourselves with upcoming talent.   This 
may seem like an  insignificant detail,  but I hope we will see the value 
that this opportunity presents.  The students of the EM Program and the J.C. 
Penney Leadership Program are expecting another exciting evening from Enron 
and hate to see us fall short of these expectations.  It is very likely that 
if we do not sponsor this event one of our competitors will.  The competition 
for talent is growing and we can not allow ourselves to become overconfident 
in our recruiting efforts.  Enron is a great place to work and we must take 
that image to campus.   I know that Mr. McConnell is a very exciting speaker 
and will no doubt amaze those present.  That is why we should take this 
simple step to have as many potential leaders present as possible and 
continue our path to recruiting dominance at the University of Oklahoma.

I am fully aware that you were the instrumental element in putting OU within 
Enron's sights.  Your involvement at OU is greatly appreciated and I hope you 
maintain
your interest in the University of Oklahoma.  Please consider my views on 
this matter and express any concerns of your own to the Analyst and Associate 
Program.

Thank You,

Jody Crook

 