Message-ID: <217735.1075855882014.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Tue, 29 Aug 2000 01:22:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: ted.murphy@enron.com
To: sally.beck@enron.com
Subject: Re: ERMS Resources
Cc: debbie.brackett@enron.com
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
Bcc: debbie.brackett@enron.com
X-From: Ted Murphy
X-To: Sally Beck
X-cc: Debbie R Brackett
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Beck-S
X-FileName: sbeck.nsf

Sally, 
As I told you last week, I laid a big egg and "put the cat amongst the 
pigeons" as Steve Stock put it.  Phillipe called a meeting with Rick (and 
me), Debbie Brackett and Steve yesterday to "clear the air".  While he 
pledged to be attentive to the problem (as I articulated), he still focused 
on fixing process which I fear gets us to where we thought we were as opposed 
to where we need to be.  I continue to believe that not only are there things 
just plain broken, but what we have gotten used to as "acceptable" is now 
inadequate.  This includes the ability for "human" systems and processes to 
be automated to avoid stupid downstream data problems as well as improve 
analytics.  You will be cordially invited to be (another) weekly meeting that 
both Rick and Phillipe plan to attend to monitor and guide progress.
Ted


   
	Enron North America Corp.
	
	From:  Sally Beck                           08/28/2000 06:48 PM
	

To: Stephen Stock/HOU/ECT@ECT, Beth Perlman/HOU/ECT@ECT
cc:  (bcc: Ted Murphy/HOU/ECT)
Subject: ERMS Resources

I heard today that Curtis Smith has resigned.  I am sure that both ot you 
know that Curtis and Jeremy Wong were viewed by users as critical resources 
for ERMS support.  Even at a stand still, my team had great concern over the 
rumored loss of Curtis and/or Jeremy.  And with the assumption that Sitara 
will not go forward for valuation, then ERMS really has become repositioned 
as one of our key, strategic systems.  There is much to do to "catch up", if 
you will, with changes and enhancements that were put on hold for several 
years during the Sitara development stage.  And our business continues to 
grow and change rapidly, requiring responsive enhancements on an on-going 
basis.   

I would like to get together to discuss the staffing plan for support of ERMS 
as soon as possible.   We need to understand how day-to-day production 
support will be managed and how development work will be effectively 
handled.  

I will ask my assistant to set up a meeting as soon as possible.  


