Message-ID: <17085102.1075849860537.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Tue, 2 Jan 2001 07:53:00 -0800 (PST)
From: mary.solmonson@enron.com
To: hal.elrod@enron.com
Subject: ERD Review
Cc: thomas.gros@enron.com
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
Bcc: thomas.gros@enron.com
X-From: Mary Solmonson
X-To: Hal Elrod
X-cc: Thomas D Gros
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: BECK-S
X-FileName: sbeck.nsf

Here's a summary of our conversation so you have points to follow up with.

General Status of the Database model: 
 FIX not represented - need to incorporate into common design and standardize 
- might cause some FIX rework.
 Referential Integrity not entirely enforced  - potential for bad data to 
develop. 
 Snapshots from Global databases are currently daily - this can be easily 
changed to be more frequent, but need to consider implementation as 
decision   on direction of Global as a part of Commodity Logic is made. 
 Rate information not developed - need integration with Rate Server or MKM, 
preferably MKM. Need to define how MKM will be used-whether just for index  
names or to obtain actual settlement prices or curves as well.
 Application development is not currently occurring on a single version of 
the database.  Therefore, some issues could arise as each development team   
migrates to the standard. This needs to happen relatively quickly.

Specific Issues:
 GFD_PIPE_METERS_SNP -  Probably need to add FAC_TYPE (WH, ITE, etc) for 
possible use as validation in KX functionality
 GAS_DEAL_LOCATION_DTL -  This table refers to facility number rather than 
pipe and meter.  Facility number is an Enronism that no other company 
will      recognize.  
 Pipe and Meter General -   Should try to avoid using Pipe_Cd as key.  This 
value needs to be updateable as pipelines are bought and sold.
    -   Data for Facilities is heavily dependent upon Enron Global Facilities 
Database in current design and functionality-this      needs revisiting as 
the decision surrounding Global is made 
 CP_ADDR_VW  - This table references only internal_cp_id and contact_type_cd 
in conjunction with address_id.  Addresses are specific to      
internal_cp_id, product_cd, deal_nature_cd, contact_type_cd, and region_cd.  
Need to add deal nature, product, and      region to ensure correct address 
usage since many companies align their business along these determinants 
and      addresses may vary
 COUNTERPARTY - There is a mixture of the usage of Global Counterparty.  Some 
areas indicate a certain amount of independence from      Enron's Global 
Counterparty system, by having a table to capture Commodity Logic information 
on a counterparty such      as phone numbers, credit ratings, etc. This would 
position CL to become independent at a later date.  Yet, Commodity      Logic 
functions as a subset of Enron Networks and GCP must make entries to indicate 
the usage of a customer by Enron      Networks to obtain an SAP id and 
support payment processing through to SAP.  So, CL could not become 
independent      without further functionality or process changes.  So why 
not put the added data requirements within GCP to start with?   If      
Global moves to Commodity Logic, then this design needs to be revisited for 
sure.  There should probably be some      standardization between 
dependence/independence whether or not CL separates from Enron. 
 Common Data  - Status is not included in the views being utilized by the 
applications.  I hope the views have been filtered for active       status 
only.  Show was going to check on this.
    - Concept of mapping others' codes to ours for processing, is not 
supported anywhere in these tables.  Perhaps       that has been handled in 
an isolated manner in the FIX design? This will have to be there for internal 
release as well as      external release.  This is critical to the hub 
concept.

I look forward to sitting in on your meetings surrounding these issues.  Let 
me know if you have further questions.
  


