Message-ID: <31218698.1075849831034.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Wed, 6 Dec 2000 23:33:00 -0800 (PST)
From: brad.romine@enron.com
To: thomas.gros@enron.com, sally.beck@enron.com
Subject: Demo w/ Louise
Cc: mary.solmonson@enron.com
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
Bcc: mary.solmonson@enron.com
X-From: Brad Romine
X-To: Thomas D Gros, Sally Beck
X-cc: Mary Solmonson
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: BECK-S
X-FileName: sbeck.nsf

Hey Tom and Sally,
 I just wanted to give a status report of my meeting with Louise Kitchen 
yesterday. Four main issues were of Confirm Central were discussed: legal 
loose ends and ramifications, user interface, functionality, and future 
enhancements.

 Starting with the legal aspect Louise wanted Mark Taylor brought into the 
process. She felt his experience from EOL would be useful, and would help 
make any seams between EOL and CL disappear. I am setting up ameeting for 
early next week between Mark T., Mark G., and Alan to get this process 
rolling.
 
 The user interface Louise thought needed some work she definitely did not 
like the colors of the website. She had good comments on how to improve the 
look and feel. We will try to incorporate Louise's suggestions as quickly as 
possible. I am not to concerned about these comments since we have spent the 
last 4 weeks developing functionality and have not yet focused on this issue.

 Louise was happy with the actual functionality of the site. She actually 
said we did an excellent job.
 
 Finally, on future relases she wanted us to focus on Financial & Physical 
Power, Financial & Physiacl Gas in the U.S. She felt that this is a market 
where we could make money, where Enron has enough volume that we could really 
relieve some pain on our counterparties. Other commodities such as Liquids, 
Global Products, Metals, she felt either did not have enough voume to justify 
the business model or would take to long to integrate into CL. As far as 
additional features to the site incorpoating an importing function for CP 
data was high on the list, next was reporting confirmation statistics, 
exporting data, and finally automatching.

Take away message from the meeting was that Louise was extremely happy with 
the site and our progress to date.

Brad