Message-ID: <7962373.1075849830787.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Wed, 18 Apr 2001 03:13:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: thomas.gros@enron.com
To: sally.beck@enron.com
Subject: RE: Update on ConfirmLogic
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Thomas D Gros
X-To: Sally Beck
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: BECK-S
X-FileName: sbeck.nsf

Kathryn has done a good job of keeping me in the loop on this.  In addition, 
Kim has consistently provided useful, objective feedback, as shown in the 
memo attached below. 

We will produce a stable code with the changes Kim and her team have 
requested before the package is released outside the building.

I have also asked Kathryn to perform more testing within the CL team before 
asking Kim and her team (or any other clients) to play with the changes.  
Performing significant changes overnight, and then showing the code to 
clients the next morning is wonderfully responsive, but a little too risky.

The high-level demo scheduled for Thursday will show code that is already 
frozen and hardened.

All the best,

Tom

 -----Original Message-----
From:  Beck, Sally  
Sent: Wednesday, April 18, 2001 9:00 AM
To: Gros, Thomas D.
Subject: Update on ConfirmLogic

I assume that Kathryn has communicated this to you.  I have only read Kim's 
e-mail - I will talk with her later today.  --Sally 
---------------------- Forwarded by Sally Beck/HOU/ECT on 04/18/2001 08:58 AM 
---------------------------
   Kim S Theriot                04/17/2001 10:58 PM

To: Leslie Reeves/HOU/ECT@ECT
cc: Sally Beck/HOU/ECT@ECT 
Subject: Update on ConfirmLogic

I wanted to give you a quick update on ConfirmLogic....

Testing was done last week on the ConfirmLogic module.  On Thursday, we 
discussed with Kathryn Cordes and the ConfirmLogic IT team the items that we 
had found that were "show stoppers" as far as releasing the product for Beta 
Testing.  Some of the major Items found were the inability to properly handle 
Basis Swaps for Gas and inability to display meaningful Index References for 
Power (they were pulling in a code rather than a description of the Index).  

The team worked on the "fixes" and migrated the code last night.  Today 
during testing, they found that the new code had actually caused problems 
with the fixed price and volume information, which was working previously.  I 
talked to Kathryn and she said that the were rebuilding the code.  She said 
that someone had tested the fix last night and everything worked fine.  We 
plan more testing in the morning.

They are doing a high-level demo this Thursday for Beta Customers just to 
introduce the module.  They were planning on having more extensive Beta demos 
for each client starting next week but realize that those may have to 
postponed further.

We have told them that we would not sign off for Beta testing until we were 
comfortable that the items that we identified were working.  We need 
consistent, stable days of testing before I will feel comfortable.

Overall, we like the "new" streamlined version of the screens and feel that 
it will be a good product if they can work out the data display issues.

Call with any questions.

Kim Theriot  


