Message-ID: <24168524.1075840894000.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Tue, 2 Oct 2001 09:15:17 -0700 (PDT)
From: amita.gosalia@enron.com
To: louise.kitchen@enron.com
Subject: FW: Enron Mentions
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=ANSI_X3.4-1968
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Gosalia, Amita </O=ENRON/OU=EU/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=AGOSALIA>
X-To: Kitchen, Louise </O=ENRON/OU=NA/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=LKITCHEN>
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: KITCHEN-L
X-FileName: louise kitchen 2-7-02.pst

Hi L

Everytime you do this (get promoted, listed in Fortune etc.) you set the bar higher and higher.  It's good to see the progress you've made.  Well done - very pleased for you.  

OK - goal for next year - take that top spot from Carly Fiorina!!

Best wishes to Marcus and Scott.

Amita

 -----Original Message-----
From: 	Omar, Awais  
Sent:	Tuesday 02 October 2001 15:22
To:	Gosalia, Amita
Subject:	FW: Enron Mentions



 -----Original Message-----
From: 	Nelson, Dennis  
Sent:	02 October 2001 15:18
To:	Romano, Marcello; Omar, Awais
Subject:	FW: Enron Mentions


[DN]  Thought you guys might appreciate this 

Most Powerful Women in Business: The Power Fifty - Louise Kitchen No. 17
Fortune, 10/15/01
Carly Fiorina Tops FORTUNE's List of 50 Most Powerful Women in Business for Fourth Year
Business Wire, 10/01/01




Most Powerful Women in Business: The Power Fifty - Louise Kitchen No. 17
Fortune, 10/15/01
http://www.fortune.com/indexw.jhtml?channel=list.jhtml&list_frag=survey_results.jhtml&person_id=222001017&_DARGS=%2Ffragments%2Flist%2Flist_5columns_powerwomen.jhtml_A&_DAV=list.jhtml

Drop in Natural-Gas Prices May Be Good For Consumers but Hinder New Production
By Alexei Barrionuevo
Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal

10/02/2001
The Wall Street Journal
C7
(Copyright (c) 2001, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.)

In the wake of last month's terrorist attacks, natural-gas prices have slid below $2 per million British thermal units, frustrating any hopes that prices will rebound this year to levels that would encourage more investment in natural-gas projects. 
Analysts predict that with prices at current levels, projects to bring more liquefied natural gas into the U.S. could be shelved or canceled.
Natural-gas prices, which reached highs of nearly $10 per million BTUs last December, had held to around $3 to $5 per million BTUs for much of the year. At $2 per million BTUs and below, producers have a hard time justifying exploration and new production. 
Analysts blamed the drop on weak industrial demand, fueled by the struggling chemicals and metals industries and by weaker electric-utility demand. Nearby November futures fell 36 cents yesterday to $2.208 on the New York Mercantile Exchange. 
In the Boston area, however, different concerns could lead to higher prices for that region. Last week, the U.S. Coast Guard, under pressure from local lawmakers, indefinitely banned LNG tankers from entering Boston Harbor. LNG makes up 15% of New England's gas supply and nearly half of its supply on very cold days. The Coast Guard and Department of Transportation are studying concerns that a LNG tanker could become a bomb for terrorists. 
Already, relative to other areas, natural-gas prices have inched higher in New England, where natural-gas pipeline constraints have long hampered the market. The spread between prices in New England and the Gulf Coast widened last week by 30 cents to $1.30 per million BTUs, said a spokeswoman for Distrigas, a unit of Belgium's Tractebel SA. But the lack of LNG isn't likely to become a big issue until winter hits and natural-gas storage is used up. 
Richard Grant, CEO of Distrigas, says LNG has a 30-year safety record at the company's Everett, Mass., terminal. While LNG is flammable, he says it is unlikely to explode. He adds that "there are a lot of things being said right now that are just not factual. But until we answer the concerns, we won't be able to bring a ship in here." 
Deutsche Banc Alex. Brown was among several brokerage firms downgrading fourth-quarter projections for natural-gas prices last week. "Prior to Sept. 11, we were seeing signs that a lot of industrial demand was coming back," said Jay Saunders, a Deutsche Banc analyst. "But all that is out the window now." Deutsche Banc is now estimating a 20% drop in winter demand in the industrial sector, which accounts for more than a quarter of total U.S. natural-gas consumption. The slack demand has resulted in supplies that have practically overflowed storage, which is on pace to be full by the end of October. 
While prices that are close to historical levels are good for consumers, such low prices could scare many producers away from making investments to ensure future natural-gas demand is met. Lower prices have already led energy companies to slow their drilling and some firms, such as EOG Resources Inc., plan to moderate production in the next two months. Gas drilling-rig counts fell to 953 last week from 1,030 at the end of August. 
Even with the increased natural-gas drilling of earlier this year, overall natural-gas supply is expected to increase just 1% this year, as the country's mature wells continue to be depleted faster than companies can replace them. The tight supply picture has analysts optimistic that prices will rebound next year amid lower interest rates, increased defense and relief spending and returning consumer confidence. 
Still, the downturn could cause some firms to rethink or postpone projects to import gas in a liquid form. With prices high last winter, El Paso Corp. and Enron Corp., among others, said they would build a dozen or so receiving terminals for liquefied natural gas, which is gas compressed and frozen to minus-260 degrees Fahrenheit. "You will see some cancellations and some delays," predicts Marshall Adkins, an analyst with Raymond James & Associates in Houston. 
Natural-gas prices need to average $3 per million BTUs on the East Coast and $3.50 on the West Coast to justify bringing in LNG to those areas, said Ronald Barone, an analyst with UBS Warburg. 
A spokeswoman for El Paso, Houston, says the company is moving forward with at least three terminals for the U.S. market. Enron said it is also pushing ahead with a terminal in the Bahamas that would pipe the gas to Florida starting in 2004.

Copyright ? 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 	

Enron leases part of Mumbai estate to Citibank
Freny Patel MUMBAI

10/02/2001
Business Standard
5
Copyright (c) Business Standard

After months of scouting for a buyer for its one lakh square feet office space at Wockhardt Towers in Bandra-Kurla Complex, Enron has been able lease out 10,000 square feet of it to Citibank NA. 
Against an expected realisation from Rs 130 crore for the outright sale of its four floors, Enron will get around Rs 1.2 crore a year by leasing out one floor to Citibank.
The deal was struck recently by the global real estate consultant, Cushman & Wakefield, at a monthly rental of Rs 100 per square foot. 
With property prices in Mumbai having slumped and with no reprieve expected in the 
short run, companies are increasingly opting to lease space instead of blocking funds in illiquid assets. 
Property consultants say that if Enron manages to lease out the entire four floors, it will be easier for it to sell the property to a buyer, as the buyer would be assured of a fixed income. 
Enron had eyed a deal of Rs 130 crore when it mandated global real estate consultants to sell the premises at around Rs 12,000 per square foot. 
This is despite the fact that real estate at Bandra Kurla currently fetches Rs 8,000 to Rs 9,000 per square feet. In June 2000, the US energy giant had shelled out Rs 125.75 crore when it acquired the four floors, plus car park space, from Wockhardt, the pharmaceutical company. 
The deal was struck at Rs 10,500 per sq ft, and included parking space for 101 cars. 
Industry sources said that Enron had spent a sum close to Rs 150 crore to acquire the property, and pay for the interior furnishings of two of the four floors it had acquired. 
In order for it to break even, it would have had to sell its real estate at the rate of Rs 13,000 per square foot. 
Four to five global real estate consultants have been appointed by Enron for the sale of its premises. A leading consultant said that it has been difficult to find any buyers for such a large property. 
"Most international buyers prefer to take property on lease instead of an outright purchase," he added. 
Moreover, the inefficiency of the building in terms of the super built-up area is another reason why corporate entities are not too eager to acquire the premises, and Enron's proposition continues to go abegging, said the consultant.

Copyright ? 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 	

Carly Fiorina Tops FORTUNE's List of 50 Most Powerful Women in Business for Fourth Year

10/01/2001
Business Wire
(Copyright (c) 2001, Business Wire)

NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Oct. 1, 2001-- 

Lower-Profile Women Topple More Well-known Names From Tech and
Internet Sector; Ranking Includes 14 Newcomers 

Though Hewlett-Packard lost $65 billion in market value in a year, CEO Carly Fiorina hasn't lost her nerve, and for the fourth consecutive year holds the No. 1 position on FORTUNE's ranking of the 50 Most Powerful Women in Business. 
The complete list and accompanying stories are in the October 15 issue of FORTUNE, available on newsstands October 8 and at www.fortune.com at 12:00 p.m. on October 1. 
In the No. 2 spot is eBay CEO Meg Whitman, who runs an Internet company that actually makes money: $85 million in the last four quarters on $582 million in revenue. Oprah Winfrey, the Queen of Media, is mightier than ever, and holds the No. 3 spot, up from No. 15 last year. She produces movies, brings comfort and advice to millions of TV viewers, propels books to bestsellerdom, and, last year, teamed up with Hearst Magazines' Cathie Black (No. 28 on the list) to publish O, The Oprah Magazine-by some measures the most successful magazine startup ever. At No. 4 is Andrea Jung, Chairman and CEO of Avon, who has breathed life into ailing Avon. Mirant CEO Marce Fuller-the only newcomer in the top five-holds the No. 5 position. Inside a stodgy utility, Southern, Fuller built a high-growth trading and marketing unit, which was spun off in April. 
In these new, more tempered times, patience may be about to reap its reward. In FORTUNE's annual survey of the 50 Most Powerful Women in Business, there is a clear emergence of women who came to power slowly. Says FORTUNE senior writer Pattie Sellers in "Patient But Not Passive," the story that accompanies the list, "By patience, we mean staying with a company, steadily building influence there, and rising to power through determination and insider knowledge, not promises and self-promotion." 
Fiorina, who has claimed the top spot each year since FORTUNE's inaugural list in 1998, heads the biggest company ($48 billion in revenues last year) run by a woman. And she is still as audacious and impatient as ever. Wall Street practically heckled her latest move-a bold bet to buy Compaq-but Fiorina, 47, remains defiant. In difficult times, "people who drive change are the subject of great scrutiny," she says. 
As always, the list is a snapshot of power at a moment in time. Last year, power resided in the technology and Internet sectors, but that influence was fleeting. Gone from the list this year: Deborah "Hurricane Debby" Hopkins, who pushed her agenda too ambitiously at Lucent and lost her CFO job in May; Ellen Hancock, who failed at the startup, Exodus; and Morgan Stanley's Mary Meeker, who influenced so many to buy into the Internet fizz. But one Web warrior looks better than ever: Meg Whitman, No. 2 on the list. She has never overpromised to investors; instead she has diligently delivered above-target profits every single quarter. 
Fourteen newcomers join the list this year: Marce Fuller, President & CEO, Mirant; Louise Kitchen, COO, Enron Americas; Colleen Barrett, President & COO, Southwest Airlines; Betsy Bernard, President & CEO, AT&T Consumer; Anne Stevens, VP, North America Vehicle Operations, Ford Motor; Maria Elena Lagomasino, Chairman & CEO, J. P. Morgan Private Bank; Susan Desmond-Hellman, EVP and Chief Medical Officer, Genentech; Janet Robinson, SVP, Newspaper Operations, New York Times Co.; Carol Tomi, EVP and CFO, Home Depot; Carrie Cox, EVP and President, Global Prescriptions, Pharmacia; Carole Black, President and CEO, Lifetime Television Networks; Janet Davidson, Group President, Integrated Network Solutions, Lucent; Larree Renda, EVP, Retail Operations, Safeway; and Louise Francesconi, VP and GM, Missile Systems, Raytheon. 
While the economy and its points of power change, the criteria we use to evaluate power remains the same. Says Sellers: "We consider the size and importance of a woman's business in the global economy, her clout inside her company, and the arc of her career-where she has been and where she is likely to go. When appropriate, we also weigh the woman's influence on mass culture and society. That factor lifts Oprah Winfrey to No. 3 on this year's list." The shifts on our list this year are dramatic, with 14 newcomers. But one trend is especially intriguing: Women are taking on bigger businesses than ever. A few years ago, responsibility for a $3 billion business almost automatically earned a woman a spot on this list. No more. This year's FORTUNE 50 includes several women who lead businesses with annual revenues of $20 billion or more, which is a first. 
In a related story, "It Took a Lady To Save Avon," Katrina Brooker looks at Andrea Jung, Chairman and CEO of Avon. Says Brooker, "Jung knows what women want and how to sell it to them. And that's what has made her one of the most successful CEOs-male or female-in recent years." Over the past 20 months she has overhauled nearly everything about the way Avon does business: how it advertises, manufactures, packages, and even sells its products, and she has done it not by abandoning the seemingly outdated Avon Lady, but by reviving her. The result: growth in revenues, operating profits, and operating margins. 
In addition, FORTUNE includes an international list of the 50 powerful women in business. The top ten, featured in the magazine, are Marjorie Scardino, CEO, Pearson (Britain); Anne Lauvergeon, Chairman, Areva (France); Mary Ma, Senior VP & CFO, Legend (Hong Kong); Marianne Nivert, President & CEO, Telia (Sweden); Lien Siaou-Sze, Vice President, Hewlett-Packard (Hong Kong); Patricia Barbizet, CEO, Artemis (France); Eiko Kono, President, Recruit (Japan): Belinda Stronach, CEO, Magna International (Canada); Marina Berlusconi, Vice Chairman, Fininvest (Italy); Christine Tsung, President & CEO, China Airlines (Taiwan). You can read about the other forty at www.fortune.com or in the international editions of FORTUNE. 
2001 FORTUNE 50 Most Powerful Women in American Business

2001 2000
Rank Rank Name Title Company
1 1 Carly Fiorina Chairman and CEO Hewlett-Packard
2 3 Meg Whitman President and CEO eBay
3 15 Oprah Winfrey Chairman Harpo
Entertainment
4 10 Andrea Jung Chairman and CEO Avon
5 new Marce Fuller President and CEO Mirant
6 18 Anne Mulcahy President and CEO Xerox
7 14 Karen Katen EVP and President
Pharmaceutical Group Pfizer
8 39 Pat Woertz President, Chevron Products Chevron
9 23 Betsy Holden Co-CEO Kraft Foods
10 43 Indra Nooyi President and CFO PepsiCo
11 7 Shelly Lazarus Chairman and CEO Ogilvy & Mather
Worldwide
12 50 Abigail Johnson President Fidelity
Management and
Research
13 9 Martha Stewart Chairman and CEO Martha Stewart
Living OmniMedia
14 12 Patricia Dunn Global CEO Barclays Global
Investors
15 16 Judy McGrath Chairman and CEO, MTV Group Viacom
16 17 Sherry Lansing Chairman, Motion Picture
Group, Paramont Viacom
17 new Louise Kitchen COO Enron Americas
18 19 Lois Juliber COO Colgate-Palmolive
19 18 Marilyn Carlson
Nelson Chairman and CEO Carlson Companies
20 new Colleen Barrett President and COO Southwest
Airlines
21 21 Ann Moore EVP, Time Inc. AOL Time Warner
22 22 Judy Lewent EVP and CFO Merck
23 new Betsy Bernard President and CFO AT&T Consumer
24 31 Stacey Snider Chairman, Universal Pictures Vivendi
Universal
25 30 Dina Dublon EVP and CFO J.P. Morgan Chase
26 10 Pat Russo President and COO Eastman Kodak
27 new Anne Stevens VP, North American Vehicle
Operations Ford Motor
28 11 Ann Livermore President, HP Services Hewlett-Packard
29 28 Cathleen Black President Hearst Magazines
30 24 Linda Sanford SVP and Group Executive,
Storage Systems IBM

31 33 Amy Brinkley Chairman, Credit Policy Bank of America
32 4 Donna Dubinsky CEO Handspring
33 38 Marjorie Magner Senior EVP, Consumer Group Citigroup
34 13 Nancy Peretsman EVP and Managing Director Allen & Co.
35 25 Dawn Lepore Vice-Chair, EVP, and CIO Charles Schwab
36 27 Gail McGovern President, Fidelity Personal
Investments Fidelity
37 new Maria Elena
Lagomasino Chairman and CEO J.P Morgan
Chase Private
Bank
38 new Susan
Desmond-Hellman EVP and Chief Medical Officer Genentech
39 new Janet Robinson SVP, Newspaper Operations New York
Times Co.
40 new Carol Tome EVP and CFO Home Depot
41 46 Jamie Gorelick Vice-Chair Fannie Mae
42 45 Vivian Banta EVP and CEO, U.S. Consumer Prudential
43 new Carrie Cox EVP and President, Global
Prescriptions Pharmacia
44 47 Anne Sweeney President, ABC Cable Networks
Group Disney 

45 new Carole Black President and CEO Lifetime
Television
Networks
46 44 Marion Sandler Co-Chairman and Co-CEO Golden West
Financial
47 new Janet Davidson Group President, Integrated
Network Lucent
Solutions
48 new Larree Renda EVP, Retail Operations Safeway
49 new Louise
Francesconi VP and GM, Missile Systems Raytheon
50 8 Abby Joseph
Cohen Chief Market Strategist Goldman Sachs

FORTUNE's International 50 Most Powerful Women

Rank Women Title Company Country
1 Marjorie Scardino CEO Pearson Britain
2 Anne Lauvergeon Chairman Areva France
3 Mary Ma Senior VP and CFO Legend Hong Kong
4 Marianne Nivert President and CEO Telia Sweden
5 Lien Siaou-Sze Vice President Hewlett-Packard Hong Kong
6 Patricia Barbizet CEO Artimis France
7 Eiko Kono President Recruit Japan
8 Belinda Stronach CEO Magna International Canada
9 Marina Berlusconi Vice Chairman Fininvest Italy
10 Christine Tsung President and CEO China Airlines Taiwan
11 Maureen Kempston
Darkes President GM Canada Canada
12 Mary Minnick President and COO Coca Cola Asia U.S.
13 Nita Ing Chairman Taiwan High-Speed
Railway Taiwan
14 Barbara Kux Executive Director Ford Europe Germany
15 Ho Ching Chairman Singapore
Technologies Singapore
16 Sari Baldauf President Nokia Networks Finland
17 Judy Boynton CFO Royal Dutch/Shell
Group Britain
18 Maria Silvia
Marques Bastos CEO Companhia
Siderurgica
Nacional Brazil
19 Clara Furse CEO London Stock
Exchange Britain
20 Linda Cook CEO Shell Gas & Power Britain
21 Val Gooding CEO BUPA Britain
22 Agnes Touraine Vice Chairman and
CEO Vivendi Universal
Publishing France
23 Margaret Jackson Chair Qantas Australia
24 Kathleen Bader President Dow Styrenics &
Engineered
Prod. Switzerland
25 Kathleen O'Donovan CFO Invensys Britain
26 Wanda Rapaczynksi President Agora Poland
27 Juliet Wu Shihong Executive Director TCL Holdings China
28 Vivienne Cox Group Vice
President BP Britain
29 Marma Asuncisn
Arambruzabala
Larregui Vice Chairman Grupo Modelo Mexico
30 Yoshiko Shinohara President TempStaff Japan
31 Lalita Gupte Managing Dir.
and COO ICICI India
32 Sawako Noma President Kodansha Japan
33 Imre Barmanbek CEO Dogan Group Turkey
34 Nina Wang Chair Chinachem Hong Kong
35 Li Yifei General Manager MTV China China
36 Gail Cook-Bennett Chairperson Canada Pension
Plan Inv. Bd. Canada
37 Marluce Dias da
Silva Director General Rede Globo Brazil
38 Anna Cheng
Catalano Group Vice
President BP Britain
39 Rose Marie Bravo CEO Burberry Britain
40 Britta Steilmann CEO Steilmann Group Germany
41 Galia Maor President and CEO Bank Leumi Israel
42 Magda Salarich Managing Director Citrokn Spain Spain
43 Marjorie Yang Chairman Esquel Group Hong Kong
44 Teresita Sy President SM Philippines
45 Dominique Heriard
Dubreuil Chair and CEO Remy Cointreau France
46 Gianna
Angelopoulos-
Daskalaki President Athens Olympic
Committee Greece
47 Naina Lal Kidwai Vice Chairman J.P. Morgan Stanley India
48 Barbara Cassani CEO Go Britain
49 Irene Charnley Commercial
Director M-Cell South
Africa
50 Katijah Ahmad Chair and CEO KAF Discounts Malaysia


CONTACT: For FORTUNE Terry McDevitt, 212/522-4788 terry_mcdevitt@timeinc.com Carrie Welch, 212/522-6724 carrie_welch@timeinc.com Caroline Plauche, 212/522-2134 caroline_plauche@timeinc.com 
12:24 EDT OCTOBER 1, 2001 
Copyright ? 2000 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 	
