Message-ID: <12958385.1075856626852.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Wed, 11 Apr 2001 09:29:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: williamj@rice.edu
Subject: Finance Club: e-trading and Fixed Income Markets Workshop
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=ANSI_X3.4-1968
Content-Transfer-Encoding: quoted-printable
X-From: "Joan Williams" <williamj@rice.edu> (by way of Kathy Spradling <spradlin@rice.edu>)
X-To: (Recipient list suppressed)
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Kaminski-V
X-FileName: vkamins.nsf

As faculty advisor to the Finance Club, Prof. Barb Ostdeik is encouraging
all members to take advantage of a great opportunity to learn more about
trading operations from two very respected individuals in the industry.
Keith Anderson of BlackRock, Inc (JGSM 1983) and Dexter Senft of Lehman
Brothers & TradeWeb LLC (Rice 1974) have visited the Jones School to give
this lecture and students have raved about them. Albert Wang's Fixed Income
and Advanced Investments classes are required to attend, and James Weston
recommends for his Applied Finance students and any first years taking
Investments next year to be there.

When:
9:45 a.m. d 11:15 a.m.
Wednesday
April 18

Where:
Room 117
Herring Hall

Presentation/Discussion Topics:
Trading Tactics d phone trades vs. electronic trading
Evolution of e-trading in fixed income markets
The future of the trading desk
Buy-side vs. Sell-side issues

Speaker Profiles:

Keith Anderson, Managing Director and Chief Investment Officer, Fixed Incom=
e
of BlackRock, Inc., is co-head of the Fixed Income Operating Committee,
Chairman of the Investment Strategy Group and a member of BlackRock=01,s
Management Committee.   Mr. Anderson is responsible for global fixed income
strategy, asset allocation and the overall management of client portfolios.
He coordinates a team of thirty-two portfolio managers and more than
twenty-five credit and quantitative analysts.

Mr. Anderson is a member of the Treasury Borrowing Advisory Committee, whic=
h
meets quarterly in Washington, D.C. with the Secretary and Staff of the U.S=
.
Treasury to advise them on the financing and management of the Federal debt=
.

Prior to founding BlackRock in 1988, Mr. Anderson was a Vice President in
Fixed Income Research at The First Boston Corporation, working in mortgage
securities and derivative products strategies.  Mr. Anderson with Criterion
Investment Management Company where he had primary responsibility for a $2.=
8
billion fixed income portfolio.

Mr. Anderson has authored numerous articles on fixed income strategies,
including two articles in The Handbook of Fixed Income Options: "Scenario
Analysis and the Use of Options in Total Return Portfolio Management" and
"Measuring, Interpreting, and Applying Volatility within the Fixed Income
Market".




Dexter Senft is a Managing Director with global responsibility for Fixed
Income electronic commerce for Lehman Brothers. During his eight years at
the firm, he has also managed or co-managed Lehman=01,s Fixed Income Resear=
ch,
Quantitative Research, Counterparty Credit and Global Economics departments=
.

Mr. Senft is the former Chairman of TradeWeb LLC, a consortium-owned
electronic bond trading system whose volume currently averages over $10
billion per day, and of which Lehman Brothers is a founding shareholder. He
remains on TradeWeb=01,s Board, and chairs TradeWeb=01,s trading protocol
committee, which oversees the rules that govern the electronic flow of
information within the system.

Mr. Senft also serves on the Bond Market Association=01,s Committee for
Alternative Trading Systems, as well as its Online Bond Steering Committee
and he chairs the subcommittee on e-commerce protocols and standards.

Prior to EJV, Mr. Senft spent 17 years at The First Boston Corporation (now
part of CS First Boston), where he was a Managing Director and head of Fixe=
d
Income Research and Product Development. He is a widely published author of
articles on mortgage securities, fixed income derivatives, and quantitative
portfolio management, and his work continues to be among the readings for
CFA applicants. In 1983, Mr. Senft led the product team that created the
first CMO for Freddie Mac.


This is regarding the e-trading/bond market session
arranged for April 18.  As part of the 1st year finance elective, you may
have already been informed by James Weston (Were you?) but I need to get
the info out to more 2nd years as well.

Do you usually send out your speaker announcements to all faculty,
students, and staff?

Albert Wang's Fixed Income and Advanced Investments classes are required to
come and James Weston will be encouraging 1st years that took the finance
elective to come.

These guys are pretty good - they came a few years back.

Thanks.

bbo