Message-ID: <31743911.1075856609358.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Tue, 24 Oct 2000 11:17:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: rodrigo.lamas@enron.com
To: david.port@enron.com, vince.kaminski@enron.com, anjam.ahmad@enron.com
Subject: Inflation Model Review - Final Version
Cc: zimin.lu@enron.com, steven.leppard@enron.com, oliver.gaylard@enron.com, 
	suzanne.bain@enron.com, bjorn.hagelmann@enron.com
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
Bcc: zimin.lu@enron.com, steven.leppard@enron.com, oliver.gaylard@enron.com, 
	suzanne.bain@enron.com, bjorn.hagelmann@enron.com
X-From: Rodrigo Lamas
X-To: David Port, Vince J Kaminski, Anjam Ahmad
X-cc: Zimin Lu, Steven Leppard, Oliver Gaylard, Suzanne Bain, Bjorn Hagelmann
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Kaminski-V
X-FileName: vkamins.nsf

This morning a draft of RAC's Inflation Model Review was discussed with Anjam.

All points as presented in the draft were agreed upon.

Also, four new points were amended as suggested by Anjam:

The RPI short-term model could be improved by a combination of the 
information available from the GILTS and RPI Swaps market.
Add:  "This is an issue across all Enron's econometric models." to section 
PLLU and DZCV Short-term, First Point.
To implement some of the suggestions requires additional statistical and 
programming resources.
Additionnal human resources with advanced econometric modelling skills are 
required given the current workload of the european research team.

Please find the final version attached.

Please note that the short term solution has been to freeze the curve.

The medium to long term solution involves futher research towards a sounder 
and more efficient model.
Given the current workload of the European Research Group, it is necessary to 
hire a new member of staff with strong economics and econometrics background 
to address this issue properly.

RAC will communicate to the Financial Trading Group and Risk Management the 
actions to take as the curve will be frozen.

Thanks,

Rodrigo

