Message-ID: <4443625.1075856609380.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Tue, 24 Oct 2000 09:22:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: steven.leppard@enron.com
To: vince.kaminski@enron.com
Subject: In Confidence/Project Status
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Steven Leppard
X-To: Vince J Kaminski
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Kaminski-V
X-FileName: vkamins.nsf

Hi Vince

I'd originally been told you wouldn't be back until Wednesday, and so have 
another meeting booked for 4:30pm (London time) today.  I really need to 
speak with you about the situation here in London re Anjam.  To be blunt, 
Sharad, Kirstee and I have all been tempted to just walk out of the office 
until Anjam is removed.  The major problems are:
1. I have no authority to demand Anjam should cooperate with Sharad, Kirstee 
etc. on their work.  He does his best to impede their work, and I have no 
ability to access his drives for data/spreadsheets.
2. Anjam removes me from the cc lists in reply to all emails received by him, 
in an attempt to remove me from the loop.
3. Anjam continues to "do business", and people in London still think he's 
head of Research.
4. Pending your "announcement", people will continue to go to Anjam, and the 
business will remain dependent on him.
5. We're severely under-resourced.  I'm still awaiting your review of the 
email I drafted for John S, requesting additional resource.  I can't make a 
big recruitment drive until I have the authority to hire more.
I honestly feel I can't do my job, and I'm currently asking myself what I'm 
even doing here.

Notwithstanding the above, here is the current picture with our projects:

Steve
1. Initiated new pre-trade system for oil trading desk.  Hooked up relevant 
IT resource with business people, keeping an overall eye on making sure the 
business reqts get translated into IT-speak.
2. Enron Direct demand forecasting system review.
3. Initiated global supply/demand database with coal group.
4. Constant firefighting across all desks.

Ben
1. Work on regression-based placement model.
2. General review of EnronCredit.com's quant models.

Matthew
1. Ongoing work with EnGOAL.
2. Produced first prototype of gas capacity charge optimisation tool for 
Continental Gas desk.  Need to purchase local copy of CPLEX.

Kirstee
1. Diverted from Richard Lewis's request for the UK gas/power vol curves to 
be sorted out, onto Eastern Virtual Power Station restructuring project.  
Involves extension runs of credit reserve model, and now it seems the model 
needs to be extended.
2. Constant VaR firefighting.

Slava
1. Finished all regressions and model identification for UK gas and power 
demand forecasting.  We are now ready to start IT implementation.
2. Enron Direct demand forecasting system review.

Sharad
1. Exotica support/firefighting, made nearly impossible by Anjam.
2. Option on strip of metals futures for Enron Metal.

I do hope we get a chance to speak and resolve some of these issues.  I'm 
really not happy at present.

Best regards,
Steve