Message-ID: <996010.1075855890574.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Tue, 23 May 2000 10:00:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: suew2@aol.com
To: sally.beck@enron.com
Subject: Special Visit
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: SueW2@aol.com
X-To: sally.beck@enron.com
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Beck-S
X-FileName: sbeck.nsf

Dear Sally,

I decided that this would be the quickest way to get in touch this afternoon,
as I know you must be very busy after taking yesterday off to be with us, and
also I know you will have many things you would like to do at home tonight.
There is no way to say thanks for the great two days.  You are always so
gracious and generous in every way, time, thought, etc.

I really enjoyed going with you to your office and now I can picture you each
day.  I found it very pleasent to sit at your desk.  Please tell Patti that I
enjoyed meeting her.

Thanks so much for taking me to see the interesting shop, and I will look
forward to going there again and using my generous Mother's Day gift
certificate!!  I am still thinking about the table I saw there-it is not a
lot larger than the table I have, but I like the fact that it is a cabinet.

It was very interesting to see your house and what has been done and what you
plan to do with your furnishings.  I think it will be wonderful and I look
forward to seeimg it all finished.  Keep me posted on what is going on and
what decisions you make.  I really do think you and your family will enjoy
the spacious large room.

I do hope David will have good news about his problem and hope that it can be
easily treated.

I thoroughly enjoyed the recital, and I think Amanda played beautifully.
Please tell her that I am so proud of her with the way she is doing in her
music, with the wonderful gold medal, and also doing so great in her school
work.  I hope she has a great two weeks at camp, and I am sure that you will
send me her camp address.  When you have time we can plan her visit time.

It was fun seeing Meagan, and she was very thoughtful to bring Michael by to
see us.  I mentioned to her that if she just wanted a change of scenery after
she goes to camp we would love for her to come over and visit.

Tyler was so much fun too, and especially now that he really knows who we are
and is comfortable with us.  We better stay strong and well so he can have
some visits with us!

I know I probably have forgotten something, but  the visit with you was
great.  Thanks you for being such a loving, thoughtful, and generous
daughter.  I am very proud of you.

Much love,

Mom

Mom