Message-ID: <7887898.1075856641758.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Tue, 19 Dec 2000 04:41:00 -0800 (PST)
From: tanya.tamarchenko@enron.com
To: wenyao.jia@enron.com, jin.yu@enron.com
Subject: Re: releasing different versions of vatrfacs code
Cc: debbie.brackett@enron.com, vince.kaminski@enron.com, stephen.stock@enron.com, 
	rabi.de@enron.com
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
Bcc: debbie.brackett@enron.com, vince.kaminski@enron.com, stephen.stock@enron.com, 
	rabi.de@enron.com
X-From: Tanya Tamarchenko
X-To: Wenyao Jia, Jin Yu
X-cc: Debbie R Brackett, Vince J Kaminski, Stephen Stock, Rabi De
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Kaminski-V
X-FileName: vkamins.nsf

Winston and Jin,
for last half year the following developments were implemented by Jin for 
vatrfacs code
(the calibration code for VAR):
1. Weighting the log-returns with exponential decay factor while calculating 
correlations;
2. Calculating factors and correlations for UK curves;
3. Joint estimation of factor loading for selected groups of commodities;
4. Alternative method for collecting historical data for correlations 
calculation 
(based on fixed contract instead of collecting prompt, prompt+1, etc. prices)

In order to release these developments Research has to have each version under
Clearcase. Then we will:
1. Run  vatrfacs code in stage environment (stage has been refreshed 
recently). 
2. Run VAR code in stage and validate the results.

It is time to start releasing these 4 versions. Projects 3 and 4 require some 
experimental runs
in stage. A few traders (in Gas, Power and Liquids markets) are expecting the 
results.

Meanwhile the following developments have been suggested by Reseach, approved 
by Risk Control,
submitted to IT as spreadsheet prototypes and waiting in line:
1. Volatility blending for intramonth power positions;
2. Forward volatility smoothing and extracting forward forward volatilities;

Hope we can follow our procedures to make all these developments go smoothly 
and efficiently.

Tanya.