Message-ID: <15393335.1075855868104.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Mon, 11 Sep 2000 01:16:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: peggy.hedstrom@enron.com
To: shona.wilson@enron.com
Subject: Re: update on doorstep to business heads - calgary - with calgary
Cc: sally.beck@enron.com, rob.milnthorp@enron.com, jonathan.mckay@enron.com
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
Bcc: sally.beck@enron.com, rob.milnthorp@enron.com, jonathan.mckay@enron.com
X-From: Peggy Hedstrom
X-To: Shona Wilson
X-cc: Sally Beck, Rob Milnthorp, Jonathan McKay
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Beck-S
X-FileName: sbeck.nsf

The following is the current status of our outstanding items:

Observation: RED:  Foreign currency risks are managed by the respective 
trader within each of the trading portfolios:

Status:  Revise target date to November 30, 2000.  The new associate in 
charge of currency starts September 15th.  Due to the complex nature of the 
problem, she will require time to gain an understanding of the currency risks 
in each of the books, and to determine the most effective process to manage 
the risks within the various trading portfolios.

Observation:  YELLOW - Due to the anticipated deregulation of the Canadian 
power market effective 2001, transaction volume is expected to increase thus 
increasing the need to capture transactions in an automated system 
environment (Enpower).

Status:  We are currently entering our transactions in the test environment.  
We expect to have Enpower in production for Calgary by September 30th.

Observation:  YELLOW - Term transactions executed via EOL do not 
automatically bridge into the capture systems thus increasing the amount of 
transactions manually captured.

Status:  Houston is currently testing the new functionality.  This is 
expected to be in production by October 6th.

If you have any questions or require additional information, please let me 
know.  




   
	
	
	From:  Shona Wilson @ ENRON                           09/08/2000 10:53 AM
	

To: Peggy Hedstrom/CAL/ECT@ECT
cc:  
Subject: update on doorstep to business heads - calgary - with calgary

Sorry, I should not have sent you London

Jeff Skilling and Sally met yesterday to discuss the status of the doorstep 
project, findings, etc.  As a result, Sally has asked me to put together a 
summary of findings to be discussed with the business heads, as Jeff is 
planning to contact them about the doorstep findings.

I have prepared a schedule from the doorstep database, ranked findings, and 
indicated which common findings were found in each office.

Please review this sheet on Calgary against the findings as you are aware, 
and give me your feedback (changes, updates, etc).  I need this as soon as 
possible, as Sally would like to alert the business heads as early as 
possible.

I am interofficing you the doorstep findings and ratings as I currently have 
it for your review.

Thanks

Shona



