Message-ID: <19326137.1075856615383.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Mon, 18 Sep 2000 15:42:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: listserv@peach.ease.lsoft.com
To: vince.kaminski@enron.com
Subject: You are now subscribed to the FRBNYRMAG1 list
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: "L-Soft list server at PEACH.EASE.LSOFT.COM (1.8d)" <LISTSERV@PEACH.EASE.LSOFT.COM>
X-To: Vince J Kaminski
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Kaminski-V
X-FileName: vkamins.nsf

Mon, 18 Sep 2000 18:42:47

Your  subscription to  the FRBNYRMAG1  list (Federal  Reserve Bank  of NY
Research Publications) has been accepted.

Please save this message for future  reference, especially if this is the
first time you are subscribing to an electronic mailing list. If you ever
need to leave  the list, you will find the  necessary instructions below.
Perhaps  more importantly,  saving a  copy of  this message  (and of  all
future subscription notices  from other mailing lists) in  a special mail
folder will give you instant access to the list of mailing lists that you
are subscribed  to. This may  prove very useful the  next time you  go on
vacation and  need to leave  the lists temporarily so  as not to  fill up
your  mailbox while  you  are away!  You should  also  save the  "welcome
messages" from the  list owners that you will  occasionally receive after
subscribing to a new list.

To send  a message to  all the people  currently subscribed to  the list,
just  send  mail  to   FRBNYRMAG1@PEACH.EASE.LSOFT.COM.  This  is  called
"sending mail to the list," because you send mail to a single address and
LISTSERV  makes copies  for  all  the people  who  have subscribed.  This
address  (FRBNYRMAG1@PEACH.EASE.LSOFT.COM)  is   also  called  the  "list
address." You must never  try to send any command to  that address, as it
would be distributed to all the  people who have subscribed. All commands
must be sent to the "LISTSERV address," LISTSERV@PEACH.EASE.LSOFT.COM. It
is  very important  to understand  the  difference between  the two,  but
fortunately it  is not complicated.  The LISTSERV  address is like  a FAX
number that connects you to a machine, whereas the list address is like a
normal voice line connecting  you to a person. If you  make a mistake and
dial the FAX number when you wanted  to talk to someone on the phone, you
will quickly  realize that you used  the wrong number and  call again. No
harm will have been done. If on the other hand you accidentally make your
FAX call  someone's voice  line, the  person receiving  the call  will be
inconvenienced, especially if your FAX then re-dials every 5 minutes. The
fact that  most people  will eventually  connect the  FAX machine  to the
voice line to  allow the FAX to  go through and make the  calls stop does
not mean  that you  should continue  to send FAXes  to the  voice number.
People would just get mad at you.  It works pretty much the same way with
mailing  lists, with  the difference  that  you are  calling hundreds  or
thousands of people  at the same time, and consequently  you can expect a
lot of people to get upset if  you consistently send commands to the list
address.

You may  leave the  list at  any time by  sending a  "SIGNOFF FRBNYRMAG1"
command to LISTSERV@PEACH.EASE.LSOFT.COM. You  can also tell LISTSERV how
you want it to  confirm the receipt of messages you send  to the list. If
you do  not trust the system,  send a "SET FRBNYRMAG1  REPRO" command and
LISTSERV will send you  a copy of your own messages, so  that you can see
that the  message was  distributed and  did not get  damaged on  the way.
After a while  you may find that this is  getting annoying, especially if
your mail program does not tell you  that the message is from you when it
informs you that new mail has arrived from FRBNYRMAG1. If you send a "SET
FRBNYRMAG1  ACK  NOREPRO"  command,  LISTSERV   will  mail  you  a  short
acknowledgement  instead,  which  will  look different  in  your  mailbox
directory. With most mail programs you will know immediately that this is
an  acknowledgement  you  can  read  later. Finally,  you  can  turn  off
acknowledgements completely with "SET FRBNYRMAG1 NOACK NOREPRO".

Contributions sent to this list are automatically archived. You can get a
list  of the  available archive  files by  sending an  "INDEX FRBNYRMAG1"
command to LISTSERV@PEACH.EASE.LSOFT.COM. You  can then order these files
with a  "GET FRBNYRMAG1  LOGxxxx" command,  or using  LISTSERV's database
search facilities. Send  an "INFO DATABASE" command  for more information
on the latter.

IMPORTANT: This list is confidential. You should not publicly mention its
existence, or forward copies of information  you have obtained from it to
third  parties. Please  note  that the  "GIVE"  command is  automatically
disabled for all archive files.

More  information on  LISTSERV  commands  can be  found  in the  LISTSERV
reference  card, which  you can  retrieve  by sending  an "INFO  REFCARD"
command to LISTSERV@PEACH.EASE.LSOFT.COM.