Message-ID: <14102485.1075849854223.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Fri, 19 Jan 2001 08:19:00 -0800 (PST)
From: jeffrey.gossett@enron.com
To: tom.wilbeck@enron.com
Subject: Re: Trading Track Information
Cc: sally.beck@enron.com, bob.hall@enron.com, leslie.reeves@enron.com
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
Bcc: sally.beck@enron.com, bob.hall@enron.com, leslie.reeves@enron.com
X-From: Jeffrey C Gossett
X-To: Tom Wilbeck
X-cc: Sally Beck, Bob M Hall, Leslie Reeves
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: BECK-S
X-FileName: sbeck.nsf

Tom Wilbeck@ENRON
01/19/2001 03:23 PM
To: Jeffrey C Gossett/HOU/ECT@ECT
cc:  
Subject: Trading Track Information

As you know, we are working on an on-boarding process to get the trading 
track participants up to speed as quickly as possible in each of their 
respective rotations.  One of the methods of doing this is to have each 
rotational supervisor (you're one of them) put a few points together to 
present to each participant on the first day of their rotation with you (or 
someone in your group).  

For example:
What does you group do as a whole?  The Risk Management Group is responsible 
for providing information to the trading floor.  That information consists of 
positions,  p&l,  and other general information which may be needed by the 
floor throughout the day.  The information must be 100% accurate 100% of the 
time as the gas floor is taking positions based on the information they are 
given.  In addition,  all reports go to SR.  Management such as John Lavorato 
and Dave Delaney.

The participants need to know several logistics type things such as:
 where to sit
 User tips on the use of related business hardware (i.e. phone system, 
intercom, etc.)
 How long/when or if to take lunch: use your discretion.
 Expected working hours: Expect to be in the office no later than 8:00 and 
preferably by 7:30

It is also important to cover the expected learning criteria with the 
participants on their first day:
 able to work under pressure - You will be asked to provide reports and 
answers to questions on the floor quickly.  You will be expected to know and 
understand the information that you are giving.
 ability to handle multiple priorities - There will be times when you are 
faced with several tasks at once.  You will be expected to make quick 
decisions and understand which is the most important.
 meets deadlines - Everyday in Risk you have to meet a deadline.  The traders 
must have positions and p&l on their desks when they walk in in the morning.
 Excellent written communication - Your written communication will be in the 
numbers that you provide to the floor.
 Excellent oral communication - Again,  the traders will expect answers and 
expect them quickly.  You will need to articulate those in a fashion that is 
understandable.
 Effective interpersonal skills -  see above.
 Attention to detail - This is one of the most important considerations of 
the job.  Again,  all information must be 100% accurate,  errors are not 
acceptable.
 Team player -  You will be expected to work across all groups upstream and 
downstream to provide accurate information and solve related problems.
 Excellent organisational skills - speed and accuracy are a hallmark of the 
job,  therefore you will need to be organized at all times.
 Is a motivated worker -  self explainatory
 Excellent analytical skills - same
 Maintains relationships with traders -  The trader will be relying on the 
information that you provide him.  Therefore it is important that he trusts 
what you are giving to him and that you are always asking if they need more 
or better information.
 Effective time management -  self explainatory
 Competent in Excel -  Alot of the work we do is in excel.  It is important 
that you be able to navigate excel, as well as create efficiencies to make 
the job less prone to errors and to run more smoothly.
 Competent with ERMS - ERMS is the system that is used to maintain positions 
and p&l.  All deals flow through this system and all values related to deals 
come from this system.
 Competent with Risktrac - Risktrac is the system that tracks counterparty 
risk and Value at Risk.  I expect you to understand what each means,  what 
the limits are,  and how you can reduce and add to value at risk.
 Demonstrates knowledge of trading concepts - Work with the traders to 
understand why they are putting on the positions that they have.  Try to 
understand proper hedging strategies etc.

Each participant who comes to your area needs to know your interpretation of 
each of these competencies so they can make sure to meet your expectations 
while in your area.

Also, the participants need to fully understand exactly what they'll be doing 
in your area.  Let 'em know with as much detail as possible.

Finally, Do you consider any information a pre-requisite for participation in 
your area ?(i.e. Advanced Excel skills...etc)
I'd like to know so we can push the participants to get the needed training 
before coming to your group.  Advanced Excel skills,  preferably a level of 
understanding of positions and value at risk.

Please compile this information and forward it to me so I can put it into 
some on-boarding material for all of the candidates by their first day of 
rotations.

The first candidates will begin on February 1, 2001.  

Thank you very much for you time and consideration.

Tom Wilbeck
X57536

