Message-ID: <18840267.1075855869397.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Thu, 27 Apr 2000 03:02:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: ted.murphy@enron.com
To: greg.whalley@enron.com, john.lavorato@enron.com, john.sherriff@enron.com
Subject: DPR Signoff
Cc: sally.beck@enron.com, michael.moscoso@enron.com, chris.abel@enron.com, 
	rick.buy@enron.com
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
Bcc: sally.beck@enron.com, michael.moscoso@enron.com, chris.abel@enron.com, 
	rick.buy@enron.com
X-From: Ted Murphy
X-To: Greg Whalley, John J Lavorato, John Sherriff
X-cc: Sally Beck, Michael E Moscoso, Chris Abel, Rick Buy
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Beck-S
X-FileName: sbeck.nsf

The Risk Management Policy requires signoff on the DPR by individuals 
designated by the COO and CRO of Enron Corp.  Currently, Greg is the sole 
authorized signer.  Given that he is moving into cyberspace it has been 
proposed that we split the world in half with John L taking the Western 
Hemisphere and John S taking the rest of the world.  I am currently drafting 
a memo for Jeff and Rick' s signature to that effect,  In the meantime, I 
would expect that Greg remain the official signer.  I will forward that draft 
memo to you for commentary under separate cover.  Once we have agreed on who 
as responsibility for what, we will ask that the Johns reply to an E-mail 
request for approval. Eventually, we will create an automatic approval via 
the Executive Reports viewer.  Before finalizing process, there are some 
issues that ought to be clarified, such as, who will signoff for the Merchant 
Portfolios that are not part of either Johns direct responsibility (Southern 
Cone, CALME), Broadband, the Capital Portfolio.  For pure process reasons, we 
would like to keep the number of signers ot a minimum.  It is difficult 
enough to get Greg to sign off in a timely manner, it would be too cumbersome 
for Mike Moscoso or Chris Abel to chase down someone from every business unit 
every day for approvals. 
Please let me know if you have any suggestions or changes to this proposal.
Ted x3-3324
ps. Liz, make sure Greg pays attention to this e-mail!