Message-ID: <18566721.1075849851080.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Wed, 7 Feb 2001 06:49:00 -0800 (PST)
From: chris.abel@enron.com
To: jeffrey.gossett@enron.com, stacey.white@enron.com, martha.stevens@enron.com, 
	michelle.bruce@enron.com, eric.groves@enron.com, d.hall@enron.com, 
	peggy.hedstrom@enron.com, scott.earnest@enron.com, 
	sheila.glover@enron.com, brenda.herod@enron.com, 
	kristin.albrecht@enron.com, warren.prihoda@enron.com
Subject: Active/Inactive Books Website
Cc: sally.beck@enron.com, shona.wilson@enron.com, debbie.brackett@enron.com, 
	burton.mcintyre@enron.com, nancy.hernandez@enron.com, 
	susan.trevino@enron.com, justin.hertog@enron.com, 
	james.new@enron.com, kenny.nicoll@enron.com, 
	bradley.samuelson@enron.com
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
Bcc: sally.beck@enron.com, shona.wilson@enron.com, debbie.brackett@enron.com, 
	burton.mcintyre@enron.com, nancy.hernandez@enron.com, 
	susan.trevino@enron.com, justin.hertog@enron.com, 
	james.new@enron.com, kenny.nicoll@enron.com, 
	bradley.samuelson@enron.com
X-From: Chris Abel
X-To: Jeffrey C Gossett, Stacey W White, Martha Stevens, Michelle Bruce, Eric Groves, D Todd Hall, Peggy Hedstrom, Scott Earnest, Sheila Glover, Brenda F Herod, Kristin Albrecht, Warren Prihoda
X-cc: Sally Beck, Shona Wilson, Debbie R Brackett, Burton McIntyre, Nancy Hernandez, Susan D Trevino, Justin Den Hertog, James New, Kenny Nicoll, Bradley Samuelson
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: BECK-S
X-FileName: sbeck.nsf

We are currently in the process of creating a website for each of the book 
administrators to maintain the Active/Inactive status of their books.  This 
website will also will allow the book administrators to check their post id's 
against active books.  All books will be identified by book administrator and 
trading group.  The attached spreadsheet lists every book in RisktRAC, 
provides what we currently believe the status (Active/Inactive) to be for 
most books and some commodity codes associated with those books.  
Additionally, there are two columns for book administrators and trading 
groups, which are both empty.  

In order for us to load the website with the most accurate data, we need for 
each of you, as heads of your respective groups, to identify which books 
belong to your book administrators and update the respective fields 
associated with those books.  Refer to the following rules for updating 
certain fields:

1)The book status should be Active, Inactive or Archive.  If a book has any 
deals/positions that should be officialized, might affect VAR, and/or might 
affect credit exposure then the book should have an Active status.  If the 
book has no deals/positions, but the intent is to use the book sometime in 
the near future, then the book should have an Inactive status.   If there are 
no plans to continue using the book then it should have an Archive status.  
Periodically, books marked as Archive will be removed from the website and 
archived.  A request can be made to the Risk Controls group to have the book 
unarchived and placed back on the website.  
Any books that do not have a status updated will default to Active.  Any new 
books set up and placed on the website will default to Active.

2)The Last Officialized and Commodity Code columns are provided to help you 
and your group identify which books are yours and the book's status.

3)The Trading Group column should have your name next to each of the books 
that your book administrators own.  This will allow you to query all books in 
your trading group to check if all active books have post id's or if an 
inactive book has a post id.

4)The Book Administrator column should have the name of the Book 
Administrator responsible for the book.  This will allow you and the Book 
Administrator to look at individual Book Administrator's books and post id's.

Once this website is up and running, each Book Administrator will be required 
to update the Status of each of their books on a daily basis and the Book 
Administrator on an as needed basis.  All of these changes will be made 
directly on the website.  

We are trying to get this process in place as quickly as possible, so please 
return this information at your earliest convenience to my attention.  You 
may call me at x33102 with any questions.

Thanks,

Chris Abel




