Message-ID: <781034.1075844162238.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Tue, 30 Jan 2001 13:14:00 -0800 (PST)
From: enron.announcements@enron.com
To: all.houston@enron.com
Subject: Meningitis Outbreak & On-site Vaccinations
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=ANSI_X3.4-1968
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Enron Announcements
X-To: All Enron Houston
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: LOKAY-M
X-FileName: mlokay.nsf

The Enron Health Center has remained in contact with our Occupational 
Medicine Advisor and the Houston Public Health Dept. regarding the meningitis 
outbreak and recommendations for vaccinations.  At this time, the Houston 
Public Health Department does not consider the present cases of  meningitis 
as an epidemic.? They have provided us with the following guidelines based on 
input from the Centers for Disease Control (CDC).
?
The CDC has defined the highest risk groups as  the following:
1. children less than 2 years of age
2. groups of individuals living in confined spaces, i.e. college dorms and 
military recruits
3. individuals that are  immunocompromised
4. individuals with a damaged spleen or no spleen
5. travellers to sub Saharan Africa or the Middle East
6. close contact with infected individuals through sneezing, coughing, or 
saliva exchange.
?
The CDC has described an outbreak as 10 cases per 100,000  population during 
a period of 3 months.? They recommend vaccinating high risk individuals 
living in?high risk areas.? However, mass vaccination for individuals not 
living in those areas is not recommended at this time.?
?
In order to assist Enron employees that are living in high risk areas 
(Conroe, New Caney, Kingwood) we are attempting to obtain the meningitis 
vaccine.  If you are interested in the Enron Health Center providing the 
vaccine to self and family members (dependants over the age of 2 years) 
please contact the Health Center at  X36100 so that we may calculate the 
amount of vaccine we will need to have available and to set up appointments.  
We calculate the employee cost of the vaccine to be approximately $85.00.  

If anyone is concerned about a previous exposure from someone  in the high 
risk area, they should contact their primary care physician  regarding 
vaccination or the Texas Department of Health. The Texas Department of 
Health's website  for information regarding meningitis is 
www.tdh.state.tx.us/. 