Message-ID: <9525491.1075844162679.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Wed, 7 Feb 2001 11:23:00 -0800 (PST)
From: ken.skilling@enron.com
To: all.worldwide@enron.com
Subject: Organizational Changes
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Ken Lay and Jeff Skilling
X-To: All Enron Worldwide
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: LOKAY-M
X-FileName: mlokay.nsf

Enron is forming a new organization - - the Enron Xcelerator - - to drive the 
formation and development of new businesses at Enron.  Enron's unique ability 
to start and develop new businesses has driven most of our growth over the 
years.  Lou L. Pai, currently Chairman and CEO of Enron Energy Services, will 
lead the Xcelerator.  Over his years at Enron, Lou has been key to the 
creation and rapid growth of our wholesale gas, wholesale power and energy 
service businesses.  The existing business units will continue their 
development of core businesses, while the Xcelerator will be responsible for 
developing new business opportunities that are natural extensions of Enron's 
business model and core skills, but not currently under development elsewhere 
in Enron.

Dave Delainey, currently President and CEO of Enron Americas, will become 
Chairman and CEO of Enron Energy Services.  Dave brings a wealth of 
experience and accomplishment from Enron Wholesale Services' businesses where 
he led the growth of our Canadian business and our North American origination 
activity and, most recently, had a great year in Enron Americas.

Dave is forming an Office of the Chairman in EES.  Joining Dave in the Office 
of the Chairman are Dan Leff, President of EES, Global Energy Services, and 
Marty Sunde, President of EES, Global Marketing and Services.  Dan and Marty 
have been instrumental in the development and execution of the successful EES 
business model.  Also joining the Office of the Chairman of EES is Janet 
Dietrich as Chief Operating Officer.  Janet, currently is Managing Director 
in Enron Americas, where she has been successful in many of Enron Wholesale's 
core businesses, including gas trading, risk management and structural 
origination.  Tom White will continue as Vice Chairman of EES and will focus 
on the development and expansion of EES' customer relationships.  Lou, Tom, 
Dan, Marty and the entire EES organization have developed a great business 
model with great growth prospects.  EES has become an essential part of 
Enron's market valuation and growth story.  This new leadership structure 
will enable EES to continue on its path of sustained growth and increasing 
profitability.

John Lavorato will succeed Dave as President and CEO of Enron Americas.  John 
has been an essential part of Enron's energy trading success over the years 
and is a key part of Enron Wholesale Services' continuing success story.  
Joining John is Louise Kitchen, currently President and CEO of Enron 
NetWorks.  Louise, who accelerated Enron's outstanding growth with the 
deployment of EnronOnline, will take over as Chief Operating Officer of Enron 
Americas.

Philippe Bibi, currently Chief Operating Officer of Enron NetWorks will take 
over as President and CEO of Enron NetWorks.  Under Philippe's leadership, 
Enron has become a technology leader and the leading e-commerce company.  
Joining Philippe as Chief Operating Officer is Greg Piper, currently Managing 
Director of Enron NetWorks.  Greg currently leads Enron NetWork's origination 
activity and was responsible for the creation and deployment of ClickPaper, 
Enron's successful online pulp and paper marketplace.

Please join us in congratulating all of these individuals on their 
achievements and their new responsibilities.

