Message-ID: <28172795.1075854997464.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Mon, 6 Aug 2001 22:20:43 -0700 (PDT)
From: 40enron@enron.com
Subject: Details for ETS' Day of Caring
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: General Announcement@ENRON <IMCEANOTES-General+20Announcement+40ENRON@ENRON.com>
X-To: Enron Transportation Services - Houston@ENRON
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Lokay-M
X-FileName: MLOKAY (Non-Privileged).pst


Thank you to all who have signed up to volunteer for ETS' Day of Caring this Thursday, August 9 at the Harbach Ripley Center.

Below are the details you have been waiting for. Please contact Kimberly Nelson (x33580) with questions.


DETAILS FOR DAY OF CARING

Transportation:  Buses will be provided to the Harbach Ripley Center.  Loading and unloading of buses will be on Shaw Street, between Antioch Church and the Three Allen Parking lot.  Morning shifts will leave at 8:00am and return to Enron at 11:30am.  Afternoon shifts will leave at 12:45pm and return at 4:00pm. If you wish to take your own vehicle, please contact Kimberly Nelson (x33580) for directions to the Center and a waiver.

Food:  Doughnuts and juice will be available to all morning volunteers.  Enron will also provide boxed lunches to all Day of Caring volunteers at 11:30am at the handicapped ramp at the front of the Enron building. For those volunteers staying all day at their site, lunches will be sent on the 1:00 p.m. bus.  

Water:  Water and ice will be provided at the Enron Building before the buses leave.  We need a few volunteers to bring coolers, as Enron will not be providing coolers.  Please contact Kimberly Nelson (x33580) if you can bring one.

T-shirts:  T-shirts can be picked up on the 16th floor in Community Relations.  T-shirts will also be available while loading the buses.

Materials:  Enron and United Way will provide any materials needed for your project.  (i.e. paint, brushes, mulch, plants, cleaning supplies, etc).  Please bring items such as hats, bug spray, sunblock or kneeling pads if you so choose.  Any employees who can bring hammers, screwdrivers, wrenches, shovels and/or rakes, it would be most appreciated.

Showers:  Enron's Body Shop has provided showers for all Day of Caring volunteers.  Waivers will be available on the bus ride to the Enron Building, or contact Kimberly Nelson if you are driving your own vehicle.  Wear your shirt (or have it with you) when you sign in at the registration desk at The Body Shop.

Work Activities: ETS will be involved in the following activities at the Harbach Ripley Center: interaction with seniors (AM) and children (PM), removing baseboards, assembling picnic tables, landscaping, and sorting/organizing.  Please e-mail Kimberly Nelson with your preference.