Message-ID: <18944202.1075860990984.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Wed, 16 Jan 2002 13:25:07 -0800 (PST)
From: lhinson@allianceworldwide.com
To: lhinson@allianceworldwide.com
Subject: Travel Services
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Lee Ann Hinson <lhinson@allianceworldwide.com>
X-To: Lee Ann Hinson <lhinson@allianceworldwide.com>
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Lokay-M
X-FileName: mlokay (Non-Privileged).pst


While recent events have dramatically impacted Enron's travel volume,
Alliance Worldwide (formerly Travel Agency in the Park) wanted to contact
you regarding the Enron Travel Program.  Since 1984, our company has been a
strategic business partner with Enron and has provided a complete scope of
services from booking, ticketing, ticket delivery, customer service,
reporting, management of ClickTrip, to facilitating preferred vendor
arrangements with airlines to benefit Enron.    These services have been
provided on a management fee basis from Alliance to Enron.  As of December
1, 2001 the management fee has been suspended during Enron's period of
reorganization.  We are continuing to provide the turnkey travel services to
Enron and forego the management fee and simply charge a time of ticketing
fee per ticket.  

To provide you with a brief history of our arrangement, Enron and Alliance
approached the airlines a couple years ago and negotiated deep upfront
discounts for Enron's business travel.  These discounts are available only
through Alliance and are given at time of ticketing.  All commissions were
stripped from the price of the discounted ticket and returned to Enron, in
exchange for Enron paying Alliance a contracted management fee.  This
management fee was paid monthly and allocated back to each Enron cost center
based on the total number of transactions.  This travel program provided
Enron over $8.6 million in airline savings on $55 million spent in the year
2000 and over $5.2 million on $33 million spent for the first 3 quarters of
2001.  These savings are after the payment of the travel agency management
fee.    

The effect that the reduced travel volume will have on discounts provided by
the airlines cannot yet be determined.  We have contacted the airline
companies and most of Enron's preferred carriers have agreed to extend the
contracts through April 2002.  You may utilize these discounts through
Alliance by calling 713 650-8080 or 1 800 962-0248.  In March, Enron and
Alliance will begin evaluating Enron's volume and travel patterns, and
determine any changes that are to be made to the discounts or fee structure.


As mentioned earlier, Alliance is implementing a time of ticketing fee in
lieu of a management fee.  These fees are reimbursable to Enron employees
through normal expense report procedures.  Specifically, the new fee
structure is based on zero-commission contracts for tickets purchased from
Enron's preferred carriers.  The fee schedule for all airline tickets for
Enron travel is as follows:

$30 - Domestic tickets with or without upfront discount
$30 - International tickets without upfront discount
25% of Savings, capped at $175 - International tickets with upfront discount
$15 - Southwest Airlines and ClickTrip Reservations, Hotel/Car Only Bookings

The savings to Enron on a per ticket basis more than covers the nominal fees
that are charged.  For example, Enron's average ticket prices are $589
domestic and $2207 international (after discounts). Enron's average savings
are $144 domestic and $587 international (before fees).  The savings are
more than three times the per ticket fee!

If you are accustomed to booking your own travel online, you may continue to
do so by booking through ClickTrip.  ClickTrip is the only online booking
tool that allows access to Enron's negotiated discounts.  Ticketing through
ClickTrip also bears a smaller fee of $15 if no agent assistance is
necessary.  There is no charge to look at schedules.   ClickTrip is
available 24 hours a day and may be accessed through Enron's intranet site
<http://travel.enron.com> or via the Internet site
<http://www.resassist.com/enron/>.  ClickTrip is also a useful tool for
checking flight schedules or for checking upgrade status.  To check upgrade
status or to review a ticketed itinerary, simply click the Check My Trip
button on the ClickTrip home page and fill in your name and Amadeus locator
number (provided at the top of your itinerary).  A user log-in may be
obtained by contacting Alliance at 713 328-5100.

If your office location, phone number or any profile information has
changed, please notify us by return email.  A profile form is attached if
you prefer to fax the information to Alliance at 713 328-5600 or if you are
a new traveler wishing to set up a profile.

We at Alliance are proud of our 17 year association with Enron and dedicated
to ensuring you of the best possible service at the most economical price
for all of your travel needs.  We have a highly trained and experienced
staff working on Enron's account and we look forward to providing you with
continued service for years to come.  
If you have any questions regarding any of the changes mentioned, or wish to
discuss specific details relating to your corporate travel policies, please
call me 713 328-5139, or email lhinson@allianceworldwide.com
<mailto:lhinson@allianceworldwide.com>.    

Sincerely,
Lee Ann Hinson
Director
Account Management
713 328-5139
lhinson@allianceworldwide.com <mailto:lhinson@allianceworldwide.com>

 <<>> 