Message-ID: <19719427.1075844053471.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Fri, 11 Aug 2000 18:20:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: enron.announcements@enron.com
To: all.worldwide@enron.com
Subject: 2000 Chairman's Award
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Enron Announcements
X-To: All Enron Worldwide
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: LOKAY-M
X-FileName: mlokay.nsf

Everyday heroes are all around us at Enron, living our core values of 
Respect, Integrity, Communication and Excellence in everything they do.  Some 
of these heroes make a big splash while others just quietly make a difference 
in the workplace around them.  Either way, these special individuals deserve 
to be recognized with a nomination for the 2000 Chairman's Award.

As there is more than just one employee living the values at Enron, this 
award program will honor 10 employees as members of the Chairman's 
Roundtable.  From that group, the one individual most embodying our values 
will be presented with the Chairman's Award at the Management Conference in 
San Antonio in November.

The beauty of this award program is that it is completely employee-driven 
from beginning to end.  From your nominations, an international employee 
committee will select the Chairman's Roundtable and eventually, the 
Chairman's Award winner.  Your role of nominating our everyday heroes is 
extremely vital to the program's success.  If someone has made a positive 
impression on you, please take the time to complete a nomination form and 
send it to Charla Reese by October 1, 2000.  You may click here for a 
printable form:  http://home.enron.com/announce/chairman_nom/form3.doc

For more information on the Chairman's Award, including details on last 
year's Roundtable members and previous winners, Repit Suliyono and Bobbye 
Brown, please click here: http://home.enron.com/announce/chairman_nom

Again, this is a very special award at Enron and we sincerely thank you for 
your participation.

Ken, Jeff and Joe