Message-ID: <21666936.1075844100220.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Thu, 17 Aug 2000 04:39:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: christine.stokes@enron.com
To: kevin.hyatt@enron.com
Subject: Trip Report
Cc: steven.harris@enron.com, tk.lohman@enron.com, jeffery.fawcett@enron.com, 
	lorraine.lindberg@enron.com, michelle.lokay@enron.com
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
Bcc: steven.harris@enron.com, tk.lohman@enron.com, jeffery.fawcett@enron.com, 
	lorraine.lindberg@enron.com, michelle.lokay@enron.com
X-From: Christine Stokes
X-To: Kevin Hyatt
X-cc: Steven Harris, TK Lohman, Jeffery Fawcett, Lorraine Lindberg, Michelle Lokay
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: LOKAY-M
X-FileName: mlokay.nsf

Summary of COGA conference follows.  FYI - at the time of the conference, the 
conference organizers indicated that all speakers presentations would be made 
available at the COGA.org websit after the conference.  However, COGA is 
currently experiencing difficulties in actually getting each speaker to 
provide this information.  I have requested a copy of the Interstate Pipeline 
(CIG/Questar/El Paso/Transcolorado/Western/NWPL) presentations to be mailed 
to me and will circulate them when I receive them.  They provide interesting 
summaries of pipeline expansion programs. 

Main conference themes which seem to be repeated among various speackers 
include the following points:

  -  Annual U.S. domestic requirements are headed towards the 30 TCF point 
sooner than expected.  One attributable reason for the higher than expected 
growth rate was the impact of growing internet & cellular activity of the 
nation.  It was estimated that these combined markets have grown from 
representing 2% of total electrical requirements of the nation to 
approximately an 8-10% range which will be sustainable from this point 
forward.  In addition, overall healthy economic growth of the nation also 
contributes to the increase in domestic gas demand.  
  -   Power River Basin coalbed methane production has the highest potential 
growth opportunity for Rocky production.
 -   Currently the companies most active in Rocky Mountain exploration & 
production are experiencing a shortage of geologists, engineers, and field 
personnel which they fear may impact the desired rate of field  developement 
- Rig counts in the Rockies are on the rise, but additional rig availability 
is also an issue which may impact rate of production.
- The only pipelines which actively promoted access to Waha markets for Rocky 
production were El Paso and Transcolorado.
- El Paso was already encouraging interest in the 1.2 BCF of capacity which 
El Paso Merchant Services currently has on their system which will expire 
October 01. 
- General conference discussion opinion is that the  Alliance in-service 
impact will be fairly neutral to market demand and gas prices for Rocky 
production.  They continue to be optimistic with their growth opportunities 
and price expectations.


Customer Meetings:

Western Gas Resources - met with Bill Koch (project developer), Chris O'Dell 
(Texas gas marketer), Andrew Carter and Andrew Richmond (western region gas 
marketers).  Western is in the process of purchasing some NNG lines which are 
in close proximity to the most southern part of Transwestern's West Texas 
lateral.   Western would eventually like to deliver treated gas into this 
line,  once Traswestern cleans the line and finalizes the Gomez to Puckett 
Tie-Over, in order to access our Waha markets.    Upside potential exists to 
eventually have access to two Western plants  totaling approximately 150 
MMcf/d of supplies through this arrangement.    TW would most likely have to 
enter into some form of transportation agreement with Western in order to 
justify the $2MM price tag for the Gomez to Puckett Tie-Over.

Aquila - Met with Tori Campbell, Goerge Nunnemaker, Mark Magliery and Nick 
Thomas to discuss general TW issues.
 