Message-ID: <22271880.1075844097931.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Thu, 29 Jun 2000 04:07:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: christine.stokes@enron.com
To: steven.harris@enron.com, kevin.hyatt@enron.com, lorraine.lindberg@enron.com, 
	jeffery.fawcett@enron.com, michelle.lokay@enron.com, 
	tk.lohman@enron.com
Subject: Upward Feedback- CAF routing issues
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Christine Stokes
X-To: Steven Harris, Kevin Hyatt, Lorraine Lindberg, Jeffery Fawcett, Michelle Lokay, TK Lohman
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: LOKAY-M
X-FileName: mlokay.nsf

Provided below are timelines representing the time between Shipper request 
for transportation and contract tendering by Transwestern for two of the more 
recent non-standard contracts which were provided by Transwestern to 
Southwest Gas Corporation and Sempra.  The provided timelines provide an 
example of the various factors which impact the turn-around time of a 
Shipper's request for service and the actual activation of a new or amended 
transportation service.

Kevin Hyatt has received a flow chart of all the processes of acquiring an 
executed contract from the point of contract negotiation to actual executing 
by shipper - a 10 step process.  Our group can certainly discuss options to 
expedite this process. 

Sempra

6/9  Sempra negotiates right to call upon TW Permian to Needles capacity.
  Sempra understands they need to submit formal request for transportation 
  for new service.
6/12  Stephanie Katz indicates she want the remaining 1,500 Dth/d of Needles 
  capacity.  Has not yet provided TW request for the "call" capacity.
6/20  Stephanie and TK negotiate rate for the 1,500.  Does not provide TW
  request for Transportation.
6/21  Sempra provides request for transportation for the 23,000 Dth/d of 
  capacity, but specifically asks TW to WAIT to process untill they
  determine their supply side receipt point allocation.  CS attempts to
  relay to Sempra the "alternate rights" which the discount letter will 
  contain as a heads-up.  Stephanie thinks she may want other
  flexibility (California Border alternates) and tells me to WAIT untill
  she thinks about it.
6/26  CS calls Sempra to remind them time is ticking.  Sempra finally 
remembers
  to lock up supply side of deal. Promises to call me TOMORROW.
6/27  Sempra leaves a message at 4:30 P.M with receipt point allocations. 
6/28   CS asks Stephanie if she plans to negotiate with Jeff for additional
   alternates like she had considered, she says no.  Now that TW finally 
  has received a complete request for transporation Contract Admin
  generates the contract with a 2-hour period.
    CS immediately routes mutually agreed upon discount letter to officers
   for approval.
6/29  Request made as to reason for delay of contract tendering to Sempra. 



Southwest Gas Corporation

5/25  Receive SWG request for transportation service.  CS begins to draft
  discount letter with SWG, specifically confirms all provisions of contract
  with account manager.
5/31  Contract received from Contract Administration.
6/5  CS received all Officer approvals for discount letter except Bill Cordes.
6/6  CS hunts down Bill Cordes for final officer approval.  Receives Approval.

  CS faxes Larry Black on 6/6 Transwestern's OFFICER APPROVED 
  contract and discount letter .
  CS leaves Larry Black a voice-mail indicating contract is out.
  CS leaves Lorraine message indicating contract was sent.

6/9  Lorraine receives "follow-up" changes from May Kay to discount letter.
  Refaxes Larry Black revised letter .
6/12  CS receives another "follow-up" change from May Kay to discount letter.
  Refaxes Larry Black another revised letter.
6/13  Larry Black calls me indicating there are accidentally two #2 
paragraphs on the
  letter.  I renumber the paragraghs and refax letter.
6/29  Request made as to why Southwest Gas only received contract on 6/21st(?)
