Message-ID: <21370866.1075844105077.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Fri, 17 Nov 2000 06:06:00 -0800 (PST)
From: christine.stokes@enron.com
To: steven.harris@enron.com, kevin.hyatt@enron.com, tk.lohman@enron.com, 
	jeffery.fawcett@enron.com, lorraine.lindberg@enron.com, 
	michelle.lokay@enron.com
Subject: Monday Staff Meeting
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Christine Stokes
X-To: Steven Harris, Kevin Hyatt, TK Lohman, Jeffery Fawcett, Lorraine Lindberg, Michelle Lokay
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: LOKAY-M
X-FileName: mlokay.nsf

Guys - Weather permitting in the Texas Panhandle area, I expect to be in 
Friona, TX on Monday, November 20th, on business.  Provided below are some  
items I would have mentioned in the Monday staff meeting:

Plains Farmer's Coop - To date, I have been able to collect approximately 
half of the $500,000 imbalance which Plains Coop owes TW.  I will be meeting 
Charles Hough in Friona (Friona is located 100 miles west of Amarillo) on 
Monday to discuss the payment plan for the remaining imbalance amount in 
additionaI to other general business matters.  I discussed my action plan 
with legal and credit and will request full payment by January 31, 2000, 
latest date.  Effective Febrary 1st,  TW will also include penalty payments 
with any future imbalance outside the +/- 10% tolerance level.  

Pogo Producing - I met recently with John Havard with Pogo. Pogo plans to 
spud a well in Eddy county which is an offset to the EOG operated well 
recently completed and in the process of being attached to TW.   Pogo's well 
will be spud in December with an expected 60 day drill & completion time.  
They have an optimistic expectation of the production being close to the EOG 
well - current initial production of 14 MMcf/d, and have plans for additional 
drilling in the field area.  

CIG - A conference call was held with CIG on Friday to discuss delivery 
performance issues of deliveries to the CIG/Tumbleweed point and the ability 
of them to increase their delivery capacity to Transwestern.    They 
explained that CIG is currently fully subscribed and operating at MAOP along 
the line which provides deliveries to Transwestern, El Paso, NNG and 
SPS/Nichols.  All shippers holding capacity along this line (capacity 200 
MMcf/d)  already have subscribed to long term contracts primarily to El Paso 
and SPS.   Currently they have no operational capability to provide any more 
incremental delivery capabilities to TW at Tumbleweed.  However, they have 
indicated a probable second Raton Expansion project will be announced March 
2001 and have suggested that looping of this southern line could be a 
possible outcome of the project which would provide incremental delivery 
capacity to Transwestern above the current 40 MMcf/d level.  I will be having 
additional discussions with CIG marketing individuals to determine who, 
besides  El Paso and Evergreen, are the primary existing shippers down the 
southern portion of CIG's system in order to potentially get them to realign 
their contract to Transwestern as a primary delivery point.   

Expedition of Contracting Process - Per Kevin's request, I provided him, and 
also discussed, several ideas which would streamline and improve the existing 
contract processing cycle.  The most important and critical recommendation 
was to revise the 3 year old ET&S Discounting Policy which Bill Cordes had 
established for both TW and Northern.  Obtaining approval of even a few 
simple changes I could recommend to the Policy (applicable only to 
Transwestern, not NNG) would have an immediate effect of simplying the 
Officer approval process and would expedite the turn-around time.


