Message-ID: <751837.1075844106428.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Wed, 6 Dec 2000 00:31:00 -0800 (PST)
From: jeffery.fawcett@enron.com
To: steven.harris@enron.com, kevin.hyatt@enron.com, susan.scott@enron.com, 
	tk.lohman@enron.com, christine.stokes@enron.com, 
	michelle.lokay@enron.com, lorraine.lindberg@enron.com, 
	lindy.donoho@enron.com, susan.scott@enron.com, 
	shelley.corman@enron.com, kimberly.nelson@enron.com
Subject: NGI's Transwestern Article
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Jeffery Fawcett
X-To: Steven Harris, Kevin Hyatt, Susan Scott, TK Lohman, Christine Stokes, Michelle Lokay, Lorraine Lindberg, Lindy Donoho, Susan Scott, Shelley Corman, Kimberly Nelson
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: LOKAY-M
X-FileName: mlokay.nsf

Article in today's NGI...

 Natural Gas Intellingence, Wednesday, December 6, 2000

Transwestern Adds Receipt and Delivery Points
Transwestern Pipeline is going through a growth spurt with eight new 
interconnect projects in service or under way, which will add 300 MMcf/d in 
market area deliveries and 285 MMcf/d in new supply receipts. The new or 
expanded connection points will enhance shipper access to both new supplies 
and markets. 
"There is not a direct relationship between the two [delivery and receipt 
interconnects]," said Jeff Fawcett, a Transwestern representative. "It is 
kind of coincidental in nature that they came at the same time, but we have 
ongoing activities to connect new supply and create additional opportunities 
for gas to both be received into Transwestern as well as be delivered out of 
Transwestern." 
Included in the delivery interconnect projects, Transwestern, an Enron unit, 
recently put 100 MMcf/d into service for new access to markets around Las 
Vegas with completion of the Southwest Gas interconnect located in the West 
of Thoreau area. 
Two other delivery interconnects are expected to be in service during the 
second quarter of 2001. Transwestern will add a 120 MMcf/d delivery 
interconnect with Citizens Arizona Gas for deliveries to the Griffith Energy 
Power Plant and a 90 MMcf/d delivery interconnect to a soon to be completed 
Calpine plant, both located near Kingman in the West of Thoreau area. 
On the supply side, Transwestern recently has added an 80 MMcf/d receipt 
interconnect in the East of Thoreau area with Natural Gas Pipeline Co. The 
company also said that it has hooked up a new wellhead supply interconnect 
with Enron Oil & Gas located in the East of Thoreau area. The addition will 
bump current supply from 20 MMcf/d to more than 35 MMcf/d. 
Transwestern also has three receipt projects scheduled for completion early 
next year. The pipeline said it expects to increase receipt capacity by 100 
MMcf/d at its interconnect with Red Cedar Gathering south of La Plata in the 
San Juan area later this month, and to put a new 50 MMcf/d receipt 
interconnect with Red Cedar Gathering in service by March 2001. The company 
also is planning to complete a new 40 MMcf/d receipt interconnect with El 
Paso Field Services in East of Thoreau which is scheduled to be in service 
January 2001. 
Transwestern Pipeline's system consists of approximately 2,700 miles of 
natural gas pipeline with combined east-west delivery capability of 1.7 
Bcf/day. For further information on transportation with Transwestern Pipeline 
Co., contact Fawcett at 713-853-1521. 