Message-ID: <32271020.1075844184714.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Thu, 4 Jan 2001 09:18:00 -0800 (PST)
From: kevin.hyatt@enron.com
To: bullets@enron.com
Subject: TW Bullets 1/4/01
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Kevin Hyatt
X-To: Bullets
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: LOKAY-M
X-FileName: mlokay.nsf

Pogo Producing - Pogo executed their interconnect and operating agreement 
with TW for the new well they anticipate flowing in early February.  We also 
received a  payment for incidental expenses necessary to bring the well into 
TW's system; expected volume is 30,000 MMBtu/d into the West Texas lateral.

Capacity Marketing - We have created 4 packages of transportation capacity 
with terms of 1 to 2 years that we are offering for sale in 2002 and 2003.  
Our desire is to price the space based on spreads between gas indices in San 
Juan, Permian, and Cal Border.  Our objective is to close these deals by 
early next week.

In addition, we have been working with EnronOnline to establish a consistent 
capacity offering of most likely east-end space on their trading platform.  
Automated contracting procedures have been established.  Legal is working on 
the point descriptions and Credit has the potential customer list to set up 
trading limits and approvals.  We should be trading on the system before 
month end.

San Juan Pigging - The pigging project using methanol to clean the lateral 
began this week.  We should know sometime the week of 1/16 if the work had 
the desired effect.

FERC Options Filing - Part of the week was spent strategizing with legal and 
regulatory affairs on various scenarios that will likely come up in the FERC 
technical conference scheduled for next Tuesday, January 9th.  As owners of 
electric generation in California, we have requested both Calpine and Duke 
attend the conference in support of TW.

Tri-State G&T - Tri-State is the generation and transmission electric 
co-operative that serves the Gallup compressor station.  Enron Compressor 
Services executed the confidentiality agreement that enabled TW to get access 
to system load information on Tri-State's web site.  Next we will need to 
build a computer program that monitors the site and automatically notifies 
gas control when a likely electrical peak will be reached on Tri-State's 
system.  If TW is able to turn down the Gallup compressor, based on 
transportation demand, we may be able to avoid some of the peaking electrical 
charges.
