Message-ID: <5569424.1075855888624.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Thu, 17 Aug 2000 00:14:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: enron.announcements@enron.com
To: north.america@enron.com
Subject: Org Announcement - Enron Global Markets
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Enron Announcements
X-To: North America
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Beck-S
X-FileName: sbeck.nsf

After having conducted our first of several business reviews, Enron Global 
Markets - Office of the Chairman would like to outline the following 
organizational changes effective immediately.

The Global Risk Markets group under Jere Overdyke illustrates enormous 
opportunities given the size of those businesses.  To better focus on the 
different commercial functions and to capture market share and value, the 
group is being realigned.  Jere will continue to manage Global Risk Markets 
and build on our insurance capabilities.  Mark Tawney is responsible for our 
weather business and will now report to the EGM Office of the Chairman.  

Brent Price will be joining Enron Global Markets as Vice President of 
Operations and Chief Accounting Officer.  He will report to the EGM Office of 
the Chairman, and to Sally Beck, Vice President of Global Risk Management 
Operations.  In his role as Chief Accounting Officer, Brent will also report 
to Rick Causey, Executive Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer for 
Enron Corp.  Reporting to Brent in his new position will be Sheila Glover, 
business controller for Financial Products; Todd Hall, business controller 
for weather; and Scott Earnest, business controller for global products and 
coal.  In addition, Tom Myers will join Brent's management team as Director 
of Accounting.  Brent and his team are responsible for all accounting, risk 
reporting and trading operations for all the businesses within EGM. 

Cindy Skinner will join the Enron Global Markets team with responsibility for 
Human Resources.  She will also report to David Oxley and the HR organization.
 
Please join us in congratulating everyone in their assignments. 