Message-ID: <22010706.1075855888648.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Wed, 16 Aug 2000 00:49:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: mike.mcconnell@enron.com
To: sally.beck@enron.com
Subject: draft org announcement
Cc: jeffrey.shankman@enron.com
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
Bcc: jeffrey.shankman@enron.com
X-From: Mike McConnell
X-To: Sally Beck
X-cc: Jeffrey A Shankman
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Beck-S
X-FileName: sbeck.nsf

Sally,
Below is a draft of the official organization announcement that will address 
Brent and his team.  I was unable to get this out earlier and am ready upon 
your review.  Please examine the Brent section and make sure that it is 
correct and stated properly.  Please send your comments back ASAP and I'll 
get this out.

Thanks,
Mike

draft

After having conducted our first of several business reviews, we'd like to 
outline the following organizational changes effective immediately.

The Global Risk Markets group under Jere Overdyke illustrates enormous 
opportunities given the size of those businesses.  To better focus on the 
different commercial functions, and to capture market share and value, the 
group is being realigned.  Jere will continue to manage Global Risk Markets, 
and build on our insurance capabilities.  Mark Tawney is responsible for our 
weather business and will now report to the EGM Office of the Chairman.  
Still under consideration - The Enron Corporate Insurance group under Jim 
Bouillion will now report into the corporate organization under  George 
Wasaff.

Brent Price will be joining Enron Global Markets as Vice President and Chief 
Accounting Officer.  He will report to the EGM Office of the Chairman, and to 
Rick Causey, Executive Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer for Enron 
Corp.  He will be responsible to Sally Beck for the business operations areas 
of the businesses.  Reporting to Brent in his new position will be Sheila 
Glover, business controller for Financial Products;  Todd Hall, business 
controller for weather; and Scott Earnest, business controller for global 
liquids and coal.  In addition, Tom Myers as Director of Accounting.  Brent 
and his team are responsible for all accounting and position reporting issues 
for all the businesses within EGM. 

Cindy Skinner will join the Enron Global Markets team with responsibility for 
Human Resources.  She will also report to David Oxley and the HR organization.
 
Please join us in congratulating everyone in their assignments. 
