Message-ID: <16348122.1075856570257.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Wed, 8 Nov 2000 09:55:00 -0800 (PST)
From: shelly.jones@enron.com
To: janice.moore@enron.com
Subject: Super Saturday Participation and Off-Cycle Interview Request
Cc: charlene.jackson@enron.com
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
Bcc: charlene.jackson@enron.com
X-From: Shelly Jones
X-To: Janice R Moore
X-cc: Charlene Jackson
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Kaminski-V
X-FileName: vkamins.nsf

Thank you for volunteering your time for this weekend's Super Saturday.  We 
appreciate your commitment to Enron's recruiting success.  At this time we do 
have an adequate number of interviewers and will not need you to sacrifice 
your Saturday.  However, as last minute changes occur in the interview 
schedule we may have to contact you for back up.    

Although we are in good shape so far for Saturday, our off-cycle recruiting 
department  is looking for interview volunteers for the following dates:

Thursday, November 9th from 9:00 a.m - 12:00 p.m
Thursday, November 16th from 9:00 a.m. - 12:00 p.m.
Thursday, December 7th from 9:00 a.m. -1:00 p.m.

Over 50 candidates will be interviewing over these 3 days.  The candidates 
will be a combination of Associates and Analysts representing schools such as 
Princeton, Harvard, University of North Carolina, Notre Dame, University of 
Illinois, Emory and many others.  Each candidate will have 4 interviews.  
Pending the outcome of their interviews we will invite them to stay and 
attend Super Saturday that weekend.  If for some reason we decide not to 
further pursue the candidate, we will fly them home that Friday morning.

We are asking Enron employees manager level or higher  to volunteer at least 
ONE HOUR to interview candidates (you will see two candidates in that time).  
If you can volunteer for more than an hour or for more than just one of the 
stated dates, that would be great!  Your help is needed!  Please contact 
Cathy Lira, at cathy.lira@enron.com or x54049 as soon as possible, if you can 
volunteer any time for interviewing.

Thanks again for your participation in the Associate & Analyst Programs.