Message-ID: <25989707.1075840776231.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Fri, 13 Apr 2001 03:04:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: ena.relations@enron.com
To: all_ena_egm_eim@enron.com
Subject: EnTouch Newsletter
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: ENA Public Relations <ENA Public Relations@ENRON>
X-To: All_ENA_EGM_EIM <All_ENA_EGM_EIM@ECT>
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: KAMINSKI-V
X-FileName: vincent kaminski 1-30-02.pst




BUSINESS HIGHLIGHTS

Enron Freight Markets
Enron Freight Markets (EFM) launched its over-the-road trucking business this week.  In addition, EFM completed 199 intermodal transactions in the first week of April.

ENA West Power
ENA West Power recently closed the sale of two power projects.  The 750MW Pastoria Energy Facility in Kern County, California was sold to Calpine and the 240MW Fountain Valley Power project in Colorado was sold to Black Hills Energy Capital.  Given the power shortage in the West, ENA is developing additional power generation in Nevada, California and Washington.

Enron Industrial Markets
The newsprint group of EIM is working to revolutionize the newsprint market and bring financial rigor and market efficiencies to a business that has remained relatively unchanged for more than a century. The global newsprint market is a 23 billion dollar a year business with the North American market comprising one third.  The group's originators, mid-marketers, and financial and physical traders offer our customers numerous financial and physical products not previously available in the market. 

EIM has made a substantial commitment to this business with the purchase of Garden State Paper company last year and the recent purchase of Daishowa Paper in Quebec City. The number of transactions has grown exponentially with the physical trading alone reaching a nominal trading volume of more than $10,000,000 per month in little more than four months since opening.  In addition to physical spot transactions, the desk offers our counterparties log-term fixed priced transactions, indexed based pricing, forward contracts, swaps, and derivative products.

Forest Products
Forestweb Inc., an Internet-based generator, aggregator and integrator of knowledge and information for the forest products industry, announced a new window to industry financial and risk management tools available from Clickpaper.com. Clickpaper allows the industry direct access to transactable prices for both physical and financial products, in an electronic format.

Paperloop.com, one of the leading online resources for the forest products industry, announced the addition of Clickpaper.com in their emarketplace, which showcases various e-commerce companies and highlights their services. Paperloop provides Clickpaper.com exposure to its 250,000+ monthly users in the pulp, paper and converting industries. 


IN THE NEWS

Ken Lay was the cover story for the April 2001 issue of Continental Magazine.  He had positive things to say about his employees.

"Sitting in his 50th floor mahogany-paneled office overlooking his much-beloved downtown Houston, Lay, with a self-conscious smile, bows his head slightly as he's described as an innovative market maker.  'I really can't take any credit, he says. My employees are responsible for what Enron does.'  What he does best, the Missouri-born corporate icon says, is 'to create an atmosphere of empowerment and creativity and hire bright, innovative people who aren't afraid to take risks and try new things." 


WELCOME
New Hires
EIM   - Craig Rickard, Lisa McClendon
ENA  - Ben Brasseaux, Stephen Swisher, Tamera Joyner, Vanessa Griffin, Kathleen Ashton


Weekly EnronOnline Statistics

Below are the latest figures for EnronOnline as of April 6, 2001.

*	Total Life to Date Transactions >  845,000
*	Life to Date Notional Value of Transactions > $500 billion


NUGGETS & NOTES

Mark your lunch calendars now! The next EWS Brown Bag is Thursday, April 19 at 11:30 AM.  Tim Battaglia VP/EIM will be discussing Steel Origination.

Congratulations to Peter del Vecchio, EIM senior counsel, and his wife, Nair. They are the proud parents of Dante Valentin del Vecchio, born April 3, weighing 4 pounds, 8 ounces.


NEWS FROM THE GLOBAL FLASH

Enron Poland obtains Gas Trading License
On 22nd March 2001 Enron Poland received a 10-year Gas Trading License, valid for both domestic gas trading within Poland as well as for gas exports.  The license is a key component to our entering the gas trading market in Poland and, coupled with the Power Trading License we obtained in 1999, will give Enron Poland a strong position in the developing wholesale energy market.  In the next two to three weeks, we expect to receive a cross-border trading license covering gas imports that are further regulated under the Polish Energy Law Ordinance on Gas Import Diversification.

Enron Wind announces first UK off-shore wind farm
On 5th April 2001, Enron Wind announced that it had been granted the right to initiate the planning process for its first UK offshore wind farm, located at Gunfleet Sands, 7km from Clacton-upon-Sea in Essex.  Construction is expected to start towards the end of 2002, with the wind farm of 30 turbines being operational by Q4 2003.  Enron Wind is also actively involved in a number of on-shore projects in the UK, including the development of wind farms in Wales and Northern Ireland.


LEGAL STUFF
The information contained in this newsletter is confidential and proprietary to Enron Corp. and its subsidiaries.  It is intended for internal use only and should not be disclosed.