Message-ID: <7069633.1075856571557.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Thu, 5 Oct 2000 13:10:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: sandeep.kohli@enron.com
To: vince.kaminski@enron.com, john.lavorato@enron.com
Subject: Request for Training Session
Cc: wade.cline@enron.com
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
Bcc: wade.cline@enron.com
X-From: Sandeep Kohli
X-To: Ted Murphy@ECT, Sally Beck@ECT, Vince Kaminski, John Lavorato
X-cc: Wade Cline
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Kaminski-V
X-FileName: vkamins.nsf

Folks,

I am a Vice President with Enron, and have been with the company some 6 years 
now.  I was hired through Enron Associate pool, and started off by marketing 
power on the East Coast with Jim Fallon.  Currently I am working in the India 
Region, looking into different ways to develop merchant type activities in 
India, anticipating the start of trading activities some time in the future.  
One of my challenges is to make the team in India aware of the type of 
sophisticated operations and processes that we have in place for trading 
activities, as well as the range of products we have to offer.

I have been in conversation with Mike McConnell and Jeff Shankman on the 
Global Products side, and are planning a session to acquaint the team in 
India with activities in that group.  Similarly, on the power side, we have 
been interacting with John Sherriff's team in London. 

I feel that it will be very beneficial for some of the team members to get 
acquainted with the processes on the power trading side in Houston, and to 
get an idea of the RAC process, the Research side, the Back-offices, as well 
as the trading operations here.  Similarly, the team there could present to 
you the state of the market in India, and give you an idea of the type of 
opportunities there.  I am therefore eliciting your support to put together a 
session in Houston where they can be acquainted with these functions, as well 
as the people responsible for them in the US.  There are three people in the 
group who would benefit from this exposure.  One of them is from the 
Associate pool, while the other two are people hired locally in India. 

I have already spoken with our COO, Wade Cline in this regard, and seek your 
support in putting together an agenda for such a session.  Please let me know 
who I should contact within your groups to discuss this further.

Regards,
Sandeep.