Message-ID: <6175979.1075856571954.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Wed, 30 Aug 2000 01:13:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: vince.kaminski@enron.com
To: dolores.muzzy@enron.com
Subject: Re:
Cc: shirley.crenshaw@enron.com, vince.kaminski@enron.com
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
Bcc: shirley.crenshaw@enron.com, vince.kaminski@enron.com
X-From: Vince J Kaminski
X-To: Dolores Muzzy
X-cc: Shirley Crenshaw, Vince J Kaminski
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Kaminski-V
X-FileName: vkamins.nsf

Dolores

Please, register me for a session on 9/29/2000 at 12:45.


Vince Kaminski






Celeste Roberts
08/29/2000 06:21 PM
To: Celeste Roberts/HOU/ECT@ECT
cc:  (bcc: Vince J Kaminski/HOU/ECT)
Subject: 

URGENT

The Associate and Analyst Recruiting Department will be conducting a number 
of two hour workshops to review our recruiting and interview process for the 
fall on-campus recruiting effort.  Critical information regarding our 
on-campus interview process, revised evaluation forms and program structure 
will be reviewed during these two hours sessions.

It is mandatory that all team members attend these workshops.  All team 
members must attend in order to articulate and demonstrate the Enron 
recruiting process.  Knowing how busy schedules are, we have made 
arrangements to present these workshops in two hours sessions for a total of  
40 workshops that will run during the last week of August, through the month 
of September and end at mid October.

Listed below are the dates, location and times for each session.  Please 
select a date and time and e-mail this information to my assistant, Dolores 
Muzzy.  We can accommodate 25 participants at a time.  Dolores will take 
dates and times on a first come, first serve basis.  We have scheduled enough 
sessions to accommodate every member of both the Associate and Analyst 
recruiting teams.

In order to participate in the recruiting process, you must attend one of 
these sessions.  We will be tracking participation.  CPE credits will also be 
given for attending this workshop.



