Message-ID: <7617560.1075856572301.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Wed, 9 Aug 2000 13:28:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: office.chairman@enron.com
To: all.worldwide@enron.com
Subject: Talk to us
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Office of the Chairman
X-To: All Enron Worldwide
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Kaminski-V
X-FileName: vkamins.nsf

Over the last several years, we've received numerous questions and candid 
comments from many of you on a wide range of topics during our eSpeak 
sessions and through the Office of the Chairman online mailbox and 
voicemail.  While eSpeak is an open, informal chat between employees and 
management, the Office of the Chairman online mailbox and voicemail box are 
designed as confidential upward feedback tools for employees who choose 
anonymity.  We are pleased that many of you have openly expressed your 
thoughts and your identity, which made it possible for us to quickly respond 
to your questions and concerns.  This is the kind of work environment we all 
must strive for at Enron, and we encourage you to continue sending us 
comments about the things that are important to you.

Many times, however, we wanted to respond to those of you who contacted us 
anonymously with your good ideas, observations and questions.  We now have a 
way to do this while maintaining your confidentiality.  In the future, when 
we receive an anonymous question or comment from an employee, both the 
question and our response will be posted on eMeet.  This will allow us to 
answer all the questions that we receive, and it will give other employees an 
opportunity to provide their insight, if they choose to do so, since eMeet is 
an open discussion board.

Remember:  You can send your questions and comments to us in two ways:
 - email to Office of the Chairman, or
 - Office of the Chairman voicemail box at 713-853-7294, which is a 
confidential call

Promoting open and honest communication is consistent with our Vision and 
Values and absolutely vital to our continued success as a company.  So don't 
be hesitant or afraid to speak your mind.  We want to hear from you.