Message-ID: <22790039.1075857015252.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Thu, 13 Apr 2000 11:19:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: enron.announcements@enron.com
To: all.worldwide@enron.com
Subject: EBS goes live! . . . 15,000 will be impacted on 7/1/00
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Enron Announcements
X-To: All Enron Worldwide
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Kaminski-V
X-FileName: vkamins.nsf

Enron Broadband Services is the latest addition to the Enron SAP rollout.  
The Apollo and Beyond project team and Enron's business units are currently 
preparing for the project's final implementation.  Apollo and Beyond is an 
Enron initiative tasked with laying a common financial, human resources, 
project management, and procurement foundation throughout the majority of 
Enron's businesses.

EBS "Go-Live"

On April 1st, Enron Broadband Services supplemented their current SAP 
functionality with HR Online and SAP HR, including payroll and organizational 
structure management.  HR Online enables the EBS population to enter their 
own time, view and update their personal information, and view their vacation 
time and individual payroll information via Enron's intranet.

Additionally, this implementation enhanced the SAP Financial, Project and 
Procurement processes that EBS has had in operation since April 1, 1999.  
These enhancements included an EBS pilot of B2B, a web-based requisitioning 
tool. Among the benefits of these enhancements will be improved information 
flow across business units currently on SAP.

July 1 "Go-Live"

This final Apollo and Beyond implementation will directly impact more than 
15,000 Enron employees and contractors -- odds are that you are one of them!  
People impacted on July 1st include:

all Enron employees paid out of Corporate Payroll in Houston, excluding 
Azurix employees
the financial communities of Enron Energy Services, Enron Investment 
Partners, Enron North America, Enron Renewable Energy Corporation, Gas 
Pipeline Group, Global Finance, and Global Products.
the project management communities of Enron North America, Gas Pipeline 
Group, Global Asset Operations, Global Finance, and Global Products.
the human resources communities of Corporate, Global E&P, Enron Energy 
Services, Enron Engineering and Construction Company, Enron Investment 
Partners, Enron North America, Enron Renewable Energy Corporation (Houston 
only), the international regions, Gas Pipeline Group, Global Finance, and 
Global Products.

General SAP training will be available in late April via the Enron intranet.  
Additional, specific, SAP classes and workshops are scheduled to begin in May 
and continue through August.  Information on the project can be obtained 
through the Enron intranet at http://sap.enron.com and by contacting Business 
Unit representatives currently working with the project.  A list of Business 
Unit representatives is located on the intranet site.

Additional information related to the July 1st implementation will be 
communicated to you over the next few months.

Thank you.

Melissa Becker
Project Leader, Apollo and Beyond