Message-ID: <6064082.1075857015919.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Wed, 23 Feb 2000 10:37:00 -0800 (PST)
From: enron.announcements@enron.com
To: all.worldwide@enron.com
Subject: Reminder: All-Employee Meeting
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Enron Announcements
X-To: All Enron Worldwide
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Kaminski-V
X-FileName: vkamins.nsf

This is a reminder to join Ken Lay, Jeff Skilling and Joe Sutton for an 
all-employee meeting hosted in the London office on Monday, Feb. 28, 2000.  
The meeting will begin at 4 p.m. London time (10 a.m. Houston time).  Ken, 
Jeff and Joe will discuss Enron's year-end financial and operating results 
and the company's outlook for 2000 and beyond.

Using Enron Broadband Services' video streaming capabilities, the meeting 
will be streamed live to the desktop for employees in Houston, Omaha, 
Portland, Calgary, New York, Stockholm, Amsterdam and Frankfurt.  To view the 
meeting, you must have IP-TV and a sound card installed on your computer.  If 
you are not able to view the meeting live using IP-TV, a videotape will be 
available after the meeting.  U.K. and European employees may contact Mary 
Gopalan for a copy of the video.  U.S. and other international employees may 
contact Mary Clark by email to reserve a copy.   

If you plan to watch the meeting using IP-TV, you can test your IP-TV prior 
to the meeting using the instructions below.  If you experience technical 
difficulties, please contact your PC Help Desk.

Following are instructions for launching IP-TV by company LAN and/or location:

 EI employees in Three Allen Center  - 
  Start Menu....Programs...General Information...IPTV Icon

 EES and Omaha employees -
  Start Menu....Programs...Cisco IPTV Viewer...IPTV Icon

 ENA Houston, Corp Houston, New York, Calgary and Portland (does not include 
EBS and PGE in Portland)
  Start Menu...Programs....IPTV Viewer Icon
 
 London -
  Menu option: START...Programs...Utilities...IPTV viewer/

 Frankfurt/Stockholm/Amsterdam -
  Start Menu...Programs...Cisco IPTV Viewer...Cisco IPTV Viewer

For the first time, the question and answer session will be open to all 
employees worldwide using eSpeak.  You can submit your questions in advance 
on the eSpeak web site at ethink.enron.com or during the meeting from 4 to 6 
p.m. London time (10 a.m. to noon Houston time).  Ken, Jeff and Joe will 
attempt to answer as many questions as possible in the time available.  All 
eSpeak questions and those submitted by London employees during the meeting 
will be included in an eSpeak transcript following the meeting.

Mark your calendar for this global employee communications event.  See you 
there. 
