Message-ID: <5716666.1075840775998.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Fri, 20 Apr 2001 20:08:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: ena.relations@enron.com
To: all_ena_egm_eim@enron.com
Subject: EnTouch Newsletter
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: ENA Public Relations <ENA Public Relations@ENRON>
X-To: All_ENA_EGM_EIM <All_ENA_EGM_EIM@ECT>
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: KAMINSKI-V
X-FileName: vincent kaminski 1-30-02.pst




BUSINESS HIGHLIGHTS

Enron Industrial Markets
Metal Bulletin - Iron and Steel Awards for 2000
Pushiest Entrant: Enron, the US commodity trading company, which promised it would revolutionize the steel business by offering futures in hot rolled coil via its online market place.

The EIM Fundamentals Analysis group is excited to announce that Dave Allan has joined as a Director, responsible for all Forest Products lines.  He comes to EIM with 20 years of experience in the Forest Products industry, of which 14 were spent at Abitibi and 6 with Pulp and Paper Week.  Please join us in welcoming Dave.

The Siebel Team ("The Force") continues to work towards program implementation of its customer management system in early May, with training to begin at the end of April.  Stay tuned for updates.

Enron Global LNG
Enron Global LNG is positioning itself to be a creator and leader of a global wholesale LNG market.  The rising prices of natural gas in the United States and concerns over future energy supplies have created a bullish outlook for LNG in the U.S. and around the globe.   LNG has played a major role in serving energy needs in many parts of the world, but its place in the U.S. energy picture has been limited. An LNG market that spans the globe can supply vast amounts of otherwise stranded gas to the world's growing appetite for cleaner burning fuels.   Enron Global LNG sees great opportunity for Enron's wholesale energy business model to help shape yet another energy market.


IN THE NEWS

Enron Corp. Says First-Quarter Profit Rose 20 Percent 
Houston, April 17 (Bloomberg) -- Enron Corp., the largest energy trader, said first-quarter profit rose 20 percent as sales almost quadrupled. Profit from operations rose to $406 million, or 47 cents, from $338 million, or 40 cents, in the year-earlier period.  Enron raised its 2001 profit forecast to $1.75 to $1.80 a share, from its January projection of $1.70 to $1.75.

First-quarter revenue surged to $50.1 billion from $13.1 billion as Enron boosted the volume of power sold in North America by 90 percent. Enron had a first-quarter gain of $19 million, or 2 cents a share, for an accounting change, making net income $425 million, or 49 cents a share. There were no charges or gains in the year-earlier period.  


WELCOME
New Hires
EGM - Janelle Russell, 
EIM   - David Allan, Sylvia Carter
ENA  - Sasha Divelbiss, Amy Quirsfeld, Judy Zhang, Annette Thompson, Kelly Donlevy-Lee, Grant Patterson

Transfers (to or within)
ENA - William Abler, Magdalena Cruz, Barbara Taylor, James Reyes, Marvin Carter, Angel Tamariz, Jesse Bryson
EIM - Cassandra Dutton, Christine Sullivan, Camille Gerard, Sherri Kathol, Jennifer Watson
EGM - Steven Batchelder


LEGAL STUFF
The information contained in this newsletter is confidential and proprietary to Enron Corp. and its subsidiaries.  It is intended for internal use only and should not be disclosed.