Message-ID: <7432118.1075855879011.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Fri, 21 Apr 2000 08:13:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: eugenio.perez@enron.com
To: vince.kaminski@enron.com, grant.masson@enron.com, alan.aronowitz@enron.com, 
	sally.beck@enron.com, ted.murphy@enron.com, bob.shults@enron.com
Subject: Attitudes about foreigners that some Japanese hold
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Eugenio Perez
X-To: Vince J Kaminski, Grant Masson, Alan Aronowitz, Sally Beck, Ted Murphy, Bob Shults
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Beck-S
X-FileName: sbeck.nsf

Because of unique aspects of their language and culture, the Japanese 
generally find it far easier to deal with each other than with foreingers.  
In some Japanese, this unease can lead to some unappealing attitudes and 
behaviors.

The Japanese maintain a very clear distinction between an individual's public 
and private faces, so that it is rare to catch them expressing hostile views 
of foreigners.  Nevertheless, every now and then, a politician's remarks will 
land him in trouble. 

You might find the enclosed article interesting.  By the way, Ishihara spent 
two weeks denying that he had done anything wrong and only apologized in the 
past couple of days.

Regards,



Eugenio


      Ishihara acknowledges word was inappropriate 

                Yomiuri Shimbun

                Tokyo Gov. Shintaro Ishihara late Wednesday acknowledged in a 
statement
                that it was "inappropriate" for him to have used the word 
"sangokujin" and
                said that he regrets having caused misunderstanding and 
hurting foreigners in
                general by using the derogatory term in a recent speech. 

                It was the first time that Ishihara had clearly admitted to 
having hurt foreign
                residents by using the word, which has discriminatory 
connotations.
                "Sangokujin" literally means "people from third countries." 
Yet it was used
                after World War II as a derisory term for people from former 
Japanese
                colonies, primarily Koreans, living in Japan. 

                On April 9, he told members of the Ground Self-Defense Forces 
in Tokyo
                at a ceremony, "Atrocious crimes have been committed 
repeatedly by
                sangokujin and (other) foreigners who have illegally entered 
Japan. It is to
                be expected that they will riot in the event of a major 
disaster." 

                Although he used the word to refer to those who have 
illegally entered the
                country, it had a different meaning from what he meant to 
say, he said. 

                "I did not intend to hurt Korean or other foreign residents 
in Japan, and I am
                extremely regretful," Ishihara said in the statement, 
promising that he would
                never again use the "inappropriate word," which is prone to 
cause
                misunderstanding. 

                On April 14, he expressed regret over his remarks, but 
stopped short of
                acknowledging the derogatory import of the word "sangokujin" 
and failed to
                apologize for having hurt the feelings of foreigners. 

                Wednesday's statement was made in response to demands from
                metropolitan assembly members of Minshuto (Democratic Party 
of Japan)
                asking that he retract his remarks and make a public apology. 

                Ishihara handed the statement to senior Minshuto members of 
the assembly
                after they held a meeting earlier in the day. 

                The statement, to which Ishihara will affix the governor's 
official seal, will
                become an official document. 

                Hidejiro Kawai, secretary general of the Minshuto group 
within the
                assembly, said, "An official document carries weight, which 
will be
                tantamount to the governor's withdrawal of his remarks and 
apology,"
                indicating that the group will not take the matter further. 
