Message-ID: <31509043.1075855879381.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Thu, 16 Mar 2000 05:17:00 -0800 (PST)
From: cassandra.schultz@enron.com
To: joseph.hirl@enron.com
Subject: Commercial Support for Tokyo
Cc: heidi.mason@enron.com, carol.howes@enron.com, scott.gilchrist@enron.com, 
	michael.gantt@enron.com
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
Bcc: heidi.mason@enron.com, carol.howes@enron.com, scott.gilchrist@enron.com, 
	michael.gantt@enron.com
X-From: Cassandra Schultz
X-To: Joseph P Hirl
X-cc: Heidi Mason, Carol Howes, Sally Beck@ECT, Scott Gilchrist, Michael Gantt
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Beck-S
X-FileName: sbeck.nsf

Joe -

I spoke w/Fernley Dyson,  CAO for EE and Barry's current boss, and he's 
supportive of Barry's transfer to our region to lead the 
accounting/commercial support efforts for your Tokyo office.  I also spoke 
with Barry, and he's excited as well.  I think it's a done deal.  
Scott/Michael - I told Barry one of you would contact him tomorrow to discuss 
the next steps re: a more standard expat package (not the 6 month situation - 
Causey approved a more standard longer term expat arrangement), and plans to 
move his family to Tokyo.

The issue we need to work out is transition, and I asked Barry to discuss 
that with you directly, Joe, and I told Fernley we'd obviously be flexible 
but we'd like him sooner rather than later.  Barry indicated the guy that 
Fernley just hired that Barry was going to be reporting to is going to start 
towards the end of April.  So I bet they're going to want some overlap there, 
which puts us into end of May before Barry could really move.  I think we 
should be able to accomodate this somewhat longer transition period with 
Heidi's help and with Carol from Houston if necessary, plus I told Barry we'd 
want him to make at least a couple of trips over to Tokyo in the interim so 
he can start getting involved even before he moves over there.  But it will 
be important for us to understand what specifically you want Accounting to 
accomplish by the end of May so Heidi and Carol can plan how to support those 
efforts while not infringing on Heidi's responsibilities and demands in 
Sydney.

Meanwhile, I've asked HR to contact Eugenio Perez, Sally's designee for the 
temporary Risk position, to begin those discussions, and Sally said she could 
address transition issues for him next week - she'll be in London 
(Scott/Michael - you should probably give her a call in the London office 
their Monday afternoon).  Perhaps we can get Eugenio over to Tokyo earlier 
than Barry.


Regards,
Cassandra.