Message-ID: <32961174.1075839924362.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Mon, 30 Apr 2001 19:59:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: saraazose@hotmail.com
To: bill.williams.iii@enron.com
Subject: I'm so glad you are still alive
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Sara Azose  <saraazose@hotmail.com>
X-To: bill.williams.iii <bill.williams.iii@enron.com>
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: WILLIAMS-W3
X-FileName: 


Bill, 
Thank you so much for writing back to me. I have been missing you like crazy without any way of getting in touch with you.  How are things going?  We have so much catching up to do.  I realize more than ever what a special friend you are and how much I have missed our conversations.  I hope all is going wonderful with you.  Things here are great.  I am almost done with my second year of school (only 2 more weeks)  I just took a comprehensive exam over the last 2 years and I think I passed.  I am constantly amazed that I am almost done with school and will soon be practicing medicine on poor innocent people.  I'll actually be in Seattle all of August and September, so hopefully we can arrange some kind of meeting so I can give you a big hug.
How is work?  Are you still doing the same job?  I know last time we talked you had all kinds of crazy ideas floating around about moving to Europe or Japan or something crazy like that.  In fact, that is what I thought had happened and I was so scared that i would not be able to find you.  Do you still have your wonderful motorcycle?  I know you were moving to a new home the last time we talked, but I know nothing about it.  are you living by yourself, in a condo, a home, an apartment?  Anything else wild and crazy that I have missed hearing about?  I'm sure there is....
Well, I just had to check something quickly off the internet before class today, and unfortunately I must go.  But it was wonderful to see your name and hear that you are alive and well.  I will definately be calling you this week to catch up.
I have missed you my friend, take care,
Sara

Get your FREE download of MSN Explorer at http://explorer.msn.com 