Message-ID: <26696377.1075849852048.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Wed, 7 Feb 2001 07:02:00 -0800 (PST)
From: brenda.herod@enron.com
To: bruce.garner@enron.com, meryl.barnett@enron.com
Subject: Business Controller Position - EIM Europe
Cc: sally.beck@enron.com, fran.mayes@enron.com
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
Bcc: sally.beck@enron.com, fran.mayes@enron.com
X-From: Brenda F Herod
X-To: Bruce Garner, Meryl Barnett
X-cc: Sally Beck, Fran L Mayes
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: BECK-S
X-FileName: sbeck.nsf

Per my voicemails to each of you....

Jenny Latham is currently a manager in Power Risk in Houston, and is 
interested in moving to London.  She is very well respected within Enron, and 
is a highly rated employee.  She has been with Enron for several years, in 
various positions, and will move us far ahead in the staffing.  In January, I 
met with Yvonne Scorer to identify recruiting needs to build the mid and back 
office for the London activity for EIM.  One position identified, Business 
Controller, is the position I have discussed with Jenny, and she is very 
interested.  I am anxious to move this forward ASAP for a couple of reasons:  
1).  Jenny is interested, and I do not want to lose her to other 
opportunities within the London office, and 2).  It is not too early to move 
forward on the staffing of the office as it will take some time to 
appropriately staff and transition current support from EGM.

Bruce, last week Jenny and I met with you, and we discussed that it would be 
appropriate for Jenny to spend time with us here in Houston to learn our 
current processes, commoditiies, etc.  I absolutely agree with this, but we 
need to make a deal with her before we can start that process.   The sequence 
of events that make sense to me and that I believe would make Jenny the most 
comfortable is that we 1).  agree on the financial package (Compensation, 
moving allowance, etc), 2).  transition her current responsibilities within 
Power Risk, and 3).  begin training with us.  Simultaneously, we will need to 
recruit applicants for the remaining positions in Risk, Documentation, 
Settlements and Trade Accounting.  My goal is to have everything in place in 
London by the end of first quarter.  

To meet this time line, we need to get more information and have a discussion 
with Meryl on the specifics.  Bruce, can you give Meryl the green light to 
move forward with us?  I appreciate your help.