Message-ID: <29700014.1075849852073.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Wed, 24 Jan 2001 12:54:00 -0800 (PST)
From: brenda.herod@enron.com
To: raymond.bowen@enron.com, jeffrey.mcmahon@enron.com
Subject: Lumber Reload Facility - Premier
Cc: sally.beck@enron.com, kent.castleman@enron.com, robert.scheuer@enron.com, 
	michael.moscoso@enron.com, romney.ruder@enron.com, 
	delmar.davis@enron.com, dan.hamilton@sappi-na.com
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
Bcc: sally.beck@enron.com, kent.castleman@enron.com, robert.scheuer@enron.com, 
	michael.moscoso@enron.com, romney.ruder@enron.com, 
	delmar.davis@enron.com, dan.hamilton@sappi-na.com
X-From: Brenda F Herod
X-To: Raymond Bowen, Jeffrey McMahon
X-cc: Sally Beck, Kent Castleman, Robert Scheuer, Michael E Moscoso, Romney Ruder, Delmar Davis, Dan.Hamilton@SAPPI-NA.com
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: BECK-S
X-FileName: sbeck.nsf

Yesterday I was informed that there was a concern about the financial 
stability of one of the reload facilities we currently use in the Chicago 
area, Premier Reload Inc.  I met with Romney Ruder, Lumber trader, Roy 
Lipsett, Logistics, and Mike Moscoso, Lumber business controller, this 
morning to gather information and develop a plan.  This is summarized below.

General Information:

Premier is a facility we have been using for a few months, located in 
Franklin Park within Chicago.  We deliver to the facility via railcar, and 
ship out via truck.  We currently have about 3.8 million board feet, valued 
at about $1 million, in the facility.  During the holidays, we began 
experiencing problems with our railcars not being unloaded timely.  We have 
been pressing for information, and are hearing rumors that have raised 
significant concerns.  Although Enron has not received written notification, 
we learned today that Premier notified customers that they would not be 
taking in any more products.  Additionally, we have heard that the owner, 
Jeff Leske, is closing the facility, and will be going to work for another 
reload facility in Chicago, Reserve Marine Terminal (RMT).  We have been in 
negotiations with RMT for a long term arrangement, and much of the 
information we have obtained is through our contact there.  In fact, we have 
diverted recent shipments to RMT.  There is a rumor that Premier and /or 
Leske may declare bankruptcy.  There is a rumor that Premier has been 
incurring "switching" fees with the railroad (IHB) and has not been paying 
them.  There is a rumor that Premier has not been paying employment taxes and 
there are problems with the IRS.  All in all, there are many rumors but very 
few known facts.

Plan:

Met with Legal today to get advice.  They recommended moving the product 
ASAP, but until moved, we needed to confirm the product was marked as "Enron" 
product, and that it is stored separately from other product.  They are 
drafting a contract to specify the arrangement with Premier.  It will be 
ready tomorrow.
Met with Credit.  They are not a included in the reload selection process, so 
the financial stability of the company has not been reviewed.  A D&B was 
pulled today, and it confirms a lien filed by the IRS on 6/22/00 for 
$86,128.  There is one suit pending by a trucking company in a nominal 
amount, filed 1/13/00.  The company is owned 100% by Leske, and was started 
in 1995.  Very little other information is available, and D&B did not assign 
a PAYDEX score.
Mike Moscoso and Romney Ruder are going to the premises tomorrow to:  gather 
financial information, intentions of the owner and the associated timeline, 
substantiate the inventory, and get the contract signed that Legal is 
drafting.  On Friday morning, Roy Lipsett will join them to meet with RMT, 
discuss movement of the product and complete the negotiations.
Depending on the information gathered tomorrow, we will determine next 
steps.  If we start moving the product to RMT, the estimated timeline is 
about 13 to 14 days, moving 10 trucks per day (total truckloads = 135).  
Estimated cost for the movement is about is $25,000.  Another $25,000 would 
be incurred for unload fees at RMT if we can't get them to wave them.  About 
half of the product has already been sold, and will be delivered over the 
next 5 weeks.  Romney is working with customers to determine if they can take 
the product earlier.

I will keep you informed as to the next events.  However, we need to take 
immediate steps to put a policy and process in place for warehousing 
facilities.  I have initiated weekly cross-functional staff meetings (Tax, 
Legal, Credit, IT, Logistics, Fundemental Analysis, Accounting, etc.), and 
our first meeting is scheduled for tomorrow.  I will have this on the agenda, 
and will lead the effort to develop the process.

Please let me know if you have any questions.

Brenda
x35778 