Message-ID: <26118248.1075855815015.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Wed, 12 Apr 2000 04:38:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: charlene.jackson@enron.com
To: sally.beck@enron.com
Subject: Scheduling a meeting
Cc: celeste.roberts@enron.com, dolores.muzzy@enron.com, 
	victoria.mcdaniel@enron.com, richard.causey@enron.com
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
Bcc: celeste.roberts@enron.com, dolores.muzzy@enron.com, 
	victoria.mcdaniel@enron.com, richard.causey@enron.com
X-From: Charlene Jackson
X-To: Sally Beck
X-cc: Celeste Roberts, Dolores Muzzy, Victoria McDaniel, Richard Causey
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Beck-S
X-FileName: sbeck.nsf

Sally,

Dolores Muzzy, Celeste Roberts' assistant was attempting to schedule a 
meeting to discuss the Commercial Services program.  The reason that Dolores 
is trying to schedule a meeting is follows:
(1)  Celeste and I were scheduled to speak briefly at Rick's staff meeting on 
Tuesday, April 11th as we had at Cliff Baxter's on March 27th.  However, we 
were not going to have a significant amount of time and because the 
discussion may have been extensive, Rick agreed that it made more sense to 
schedule a meeting in which the Commercial Services program was the sole 
topic of discussion.

(2) You and I had exchanged voice mails on March 27th, immediately after 
Cliff's staff meeting where you indicated that you had a group of individuals 
who were involved in recruiting and who would like to meet with us regarding 
questions about the management of the program.  You indicated that you would 
facilitate scheduling the meeting.  However, given that I had not heard from 
you and Celeste had told Rick we would schedule a meeting, it seemed to make 
sense to combine the meetings since they would most probably include some of 
the same individuals and cover the same questions.

I have no problem with you facilitating the scheduling of the meeting as you 
expressed to Dolores.  However, given that we told Rick that we would 
schedule a meeting, we are just trying to make sure that it does not slip 
through the cracks.  We will attempt to be available whenever it is 
convenient for you and the group that you wish to pull together.  If you wish 
to schedule a meeting immediately, our availability is as follows:

Friday, April 14th from 2:00 - 5:00 p.m.
Monday, April 17th from 9:30 - 11:30 a.m.
Tuesday, April 18th from 9:00 - 11:00 a.m. or 2:30 p.m. - 5:00 p.m.
Wednesday, April 19th from 9:00 - 11:30 a.m.

If these dates don't work please don't hesitate to suggest others.   We look 
forward to meeting with you.

Thanks

Charlene

P.S. My schedule gets pretty crazy so if you could let me know as soon as 
possible what date works for you I can be sure to hold the time.  Thanks.