Message-ID: <32368405.1075855814235.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Fri, 6 Oct 2000 04:47:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: kimberly.rizzi@enron.com
To: richard.causey@enron.com, celeste.roberts@enron.com, sally.beck@enron.com, 
	teresa.bosien@enron.com, susan.carrera@enron.com
Subject: Analyst Bonus Followup
Cc: trang.dinh@enron.com
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
Bcc: trang.dinh@enron.com
X-From: Kimberly Rizzi
X-To: Richard Causey, Celeste Roberts, Sally Beck, Teresa Bosien, Susan Carrera
X-cc: Trang Dinh
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Beck-S
X-FileName: sbeck.nsf

Dear all,

If you recall, several months ago we held a meeting to discuss the bonus 
planning needs for Commercial and Commercial Support Analysts now that they 
have been combined into one program under the A/A Program umbrella.

I was asked to put together some information on how bonuses in 1999 compared 
between Merchant Service Analysts, Commercial Analysts and Commercial Support 
Sr. Specialists (and possibly even Managers) so that we could determine if 
there would be a 2000 bonus compression problem in Analysts being placed in 
Commercial Support positions and then having lower bonuses.  Attached below 
you will find the results of that research.

In short the conclusions are these:
The 2000 system allows a difference between Commercial and Commercial Support 
Analyst bonus matrices preventing the compression problem.
In 1999, Commercial Analyst and Commercial Support Sr. Specialist bonus 
matrices were comparable - and this can still occur in 2000.
Bonus structures can easily be planned for 2000 so that no compression 
problem occurs.



The data above is being sent to help you understand the concepts we discussed 
and put closure to the meeting.  The 2000 bonus planning system allows for a 
variation within Analyst categories (commercial and commercial support) and 
will meet the business needs.  Please let me know if you want to discuss 
further or would like to see the raw data used in the research.

Regards,
Kim