Message-ID: <17883230.1075840877539.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Mon, 19 Mar 2001 10:13:00 -0800 (PST)
From: kevin.presto@enron.com
To: john.lavorato@enron.com, louise.kitchen@enron.com
Subject: Leadership Committees
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Kevin M Presto <Kevin M Presto/HOU/ECT@ECT>
X-To: John J Lavorato <John J Lavorato/Enron@EnronXGate>, Louise Kitchen <Louise Kitchen/HOU/ECT@ECT>
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: KITCHEN-L
X-FileName: louise kitchen 2-7-02.pst

I thought you were pulling the traders/desk heads from these Associate/Analyst commitees.   As you know, the time commitment is 2-3 days at mid-yr and year-end.
---------------------- Forwarded by Kevin M Presto/HOU/ECT on 03/19/2001 07:04 AM ---------------------------
   

	Enron North America Corp.  From:  Ken Lay and Jeff Skilling @ ENRON                           03/16/2001 10:34 PM	
		


Sent by:	Ken Lay and Jeff Skilling@ENRON
To:	All Enron Worldwide
cc:	 
Subject:	Leadership Committees

We are launching a number of committees to perform key functions across Enron.  Enron's breadth of activities and nonhierarchal organization make it increasingly necessary to broaden the participation of Enron's next generation of leadership in the important decisions affecting the company.  Broadening participation will result in increased access to information as decisions are made and will allow committee members to extend their working relationships and influence throughout the company.

The committee charters and memberships are set forth below.  Not everyone listed has been contacted in advance.  We urge you to serve if at all possible, but, if you cannot, please contact the committee chair.

VP PRC

The VP PRC will continue to be responsible for evaluating the performance of Enron's Vice Presidents, determining promotions to Vice President, and recommending promotions to Managing Director.  Additionally, the VP PRC will review and propose changes to the PRC process, the performance evaluation criteria and the promotion criteria.

The VP PRC will be chaired by Dave Delainey and its membership is as follows:


Tim Belden	Ben Glisan	Danny McCarty	
Michael Brown	Joe Gold	Jeff McMahon	
Rick Buy	Mark Haedicke	Rob Milnthorp	
Wes Colwell	Jim Hughes	Matthew Scrimshaw	
David Cox	Louise Kitchen	Jeff Shankman	
Janet Dietrich	Michael Kopper	Richard Shapiro	
Dave Duran	John Lavorato	Marty Sunde	
Jim Fallon	Dan Leff		



Analyst/Associate PRC

The analyst/associate PRC will be divided into 3 groups.  Enron Europe will have the same committee evaluate analysts and associates.  This group will be chaired by John Sherriff and its membership is as follows:


Pierre Aury	Kevin Heffron	Andreas Radmacher	
Rob Bayley	Joe Hirl	Stuart Rexrode	
Paul Chivers	Chris Mahoney	Marcello Romano	
Markus Fiala	Christopher McKey	Bjarne Schieldrop	
David Gallagher	Roy Poyntz	Ron Slimp	
Bruce Garner	Paul Quilkey	Rob Stewart	

  


The associate PRC for the Americas will be chaired by Stan Horton and its membership is as follows:


Sally Beck 	Troy Henry	Kevin Presto 	
Jeremy Blachman	Sean Holmes 	Brad Richter 	
Don Black	Sean Long 	Stewart Seeligson	
Dan Castagnola 	Rodney Malcolm	Hunter Shively	
Joe Deffner	Scott Neal 	Jim Steffes 	
Kevin Garland	John Nowlan 	Andy Zipper 	
David Gorte	Ozzie Pagan 		



The analyst PRC for the Americas will be chaired by Steve Kean and its membership is as follows:


Federico Cerisoli 	Mark Jackson 	Everett Plante 	
Jennifer Fraser 	Ben Jacoby 	Paul Racicot 	
Derrick Davies	Steve Jernigan 	Angela Schwarz	
Scott Gahn 	Jay Lewis 	Ed Smida 	
Rod Hayslett	Cheryl Lipshutz 	Jon Thomsen 	
Rogers Herndon 	Michael Mann	Emilio Vicens 	
Brenda Herod 	Ed McMichael 	Frank Vickers 	
Kevin Howard 	Steve Meyers 		




Analyst/Associate Program

The most essential determinant of Enron's continued growth is our ability to attract and develop new talent.  The analyst/associate program has been the biggest contributor to our success in this area.  Charlene Jackson, currently leading our analyst/associate program, has taken a commercial position in EES' account management organization.  We thank Charlene for her hard work and many contributions to the program.  Going forward, this program will be administered by a committee chaired by John Sherriff, CEO of Enron Europe.  The members of this committee are listed below.  Billy Lemmons, currently Vice President of Enron Global Markets, will lead the day-to-day operations of the program. Billy joined Enron in 1992, and has served in a variety of commercial capacities across the company and has been an active participant in the Associate /Analyst program.  Please join us in congratulating Billy on his new responsibilities.


Phillip Allen	Andy Fastow	Eric Shaw	
Robina Barker-Bennett	Kevin Garland	Hunter Shively	
Rick Causey	Ken Rice	Stu Staley	
Joe Deffner			



Culture

We are combining the vision and values, diversity and corporate responsibility committees into a single corporate culture committee chaired by Ken Lay.  Cindy Olson, Beth Tilney and Kelly Kimberly will serve as executive directors of this committee.  This committee will focus on leadership and work-life issues (making it easier to attract and retain the best talent), in addition to continuing the work of the vision and values, diversity and corporate responsibility task forces.  The members of this committee are as follows:


Greg Adams	Louise Kitchen	Mark Palmer	
Shelley Corman	Michael Kopper	Paula Rieker	
Janet Dietrich	Richard Lewis	Jeff Shankman	
Jeff Donahue	Sean Long	Mitch Taylor	
Gene Humphrey	Dan McCarty	Mike Terraso	
Robert Jones	Jean Mrha		


The Corporate Policy Committee will conduct the MD PRC and review the recommendations of the other committees, giving substantial deference to the decisions of those other committees.  We will be forming other committees to deal with other significant functions, tasks and issues facing the company.