Message-ID: <8367979.1075855875717.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Tue, 14 Mar 2000 22:37:00 -0800 (PST)
From: john.sherriff@enron.com
To: sally.beck@enron.com
Subject: Re: Trip to London Next Week
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: John Sherriff
X-To: Sally Beck
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Beck-S
X-FileName: sbeck.nsf

Sally

Thanks for the note.  I will look forward to seeing you hear next week and 
meeting with you in person for at least an hour or so.

John


   
	Enron Capital & Trade Resources Corp.
	
	From:  Sally Beck                           14/03/2000 15:58
	

To: John Sherriff/LON/ECT@ECT
cc:  

Subject: Trip to London Next Week


Brent Price and I will be in the London office next week, arriving Monday 
morning and returning to Houston on Friday.  The purpose of my visit is in 
regard to my Global Risk Management Operations role,   I believe that Rick 
Causey met with you regarding some operations support that Brent and I will 
provide to Fernley during a transition period prior to the arrival and during 
the assimilation of Michael Jordan, the JP Morgan staffer that Fernley has 
hired.  Brent and I will be working with Fernley next week to iron out the 
details of our support for Fernley during that transition period.  We will 
also map out an Enron trading operations introduction  for Michael Jordan, 
which may involve a short stint for him in Houston.  My goal is to provide a 
strong resource to Fernley during this transition period and to work with 
Fernley to provide whatever assistance, training, and orientation to Michael 
in his role so that his assimilation can be as smooth and effective as 
possible.  

Another purpose for the trip is to spend some time with Fernley and his  
business controllers  to get their ideas on specific goals that as a group we 
would commit to for 2000.  I know that Barry and Richard Sage have many good 
ideas on how we can leverage knowledge and best practices across all Enron 
locations with trading operations.  My earlier trips to London this year were 
focused solely on Helsinki, and did not allow time to positively focus on 
leveraging worldwide operations experience.  I value input from other trading 
operations professionals and I look forward to the ideas that can be 
generated in working with Barry, Richard and some of their direct reports.  

I also contacted Tani Nath about my trip to see how I could support her as 
she moves into her role in Global Products.  I have not heard  from Tani, but 
I understand from others that she will be in the Houston office next week.  
It will be unfortunate to miss her on my trip, but based on my commitments in 
Houston and Rick Causey's desire to move forward on providing trading 
operations support to Fernley, next week is the best for me to be in London.  
I did meet with Tani for an hour when she was here week before last and 
offered to help her in any way if she made the decision to accept the role 
over Global Products.  I trust that she will contact me for that support as 
needed.  

I have scheduled a short meeting one on one with you while I am there to 
discuss how my global role can provide support and resources for your 
business efforts in London.  I look forward to meeting with you next week.  

This trip is not a leg of the worldwide operations/control review that we are 
conducting at Joe Sutton's request.   By circumstance, as you know, we have 
taken a look at Helsinki and subsequently Oslo and Frankfurt.  There will be 
a similar review of Continental power, UK gas, UK power and global liquids.  
The review teams are currently focused on operations/controls reviews of 
North American locations and some entities in the US in which Enron has a 
large ownership position.  It is likely that the continuation of this effort 
in London will occur in mid April.  

Copies of the drafts of the findings for Oslo and Frankfurt were provided to 
Fernley as soon as the team returned to Houston.  We hope to finalise those 
drafts this week as we receive comments from Fernley and the business 
managers in Oslo and Frankfurt to whom those drafts were provided.  Fernley 
suggested that you would like to see the drafts as opposed to the final 
copies, so I will have those forwarded to you today.  The Sydney and 
Singapore trip was a lengthy one, as it also involved a last leg of the trip 
in London with regard to support for SIngapore.  The Houston team returned 
the middle of last week and worked with AA on an early draft last Friday.  I 
can also provide you with a draft of that report, the completion of which was 
pending input from Bill Bradford early this week (he made the trip but was 
out of the office last week).  We did do a preliminary review of the Sydney 
and Singapore findings with Rick Causey and Rick Buy on Friday afternoon, to 
accommodate the fact that both are out on vacation this week.  They 
understood the preliminary nature of the draft that was reviewed with them.  

 

