Message-ID: <16357128.1075855876093.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Wed, 9 Feb 2000 11:42:00 -0800 (PST)
From: fernley.dyson@enron.com
To: sally.beck@enron.com
Subject: ECT Europe - Organisational Announcement
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Fernley Dyson
X-To: Sally Beck
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Beck-S
X-FileName: sbeck.nsf

Sally,

The draft for your review and comments, as promised. The sooner I can get 
this out, the sooner the trading floor gossip will stop. (no such thing as a 
secret in Enron is there?).

Many thanks

Fernley


In view of the continued integration of a number of Enron global functions, I 
am pleased to announce that the European Trading Support functions will, with 
immediate effect, be consolidated into one operational unit. This unit, to be 
headed by Barry Pearce (VP of Trading Support Operations) and based in 
London, will include the European Gas, European Power and the Global Liquids 
groups.

This newly created unit will work within the remit of Global Risk Management 
Operations and will adopt the following core responsibilities in Europe.

1. Enhance communication and integration among all trading support operations 
professionals.
2. Assure the proliferation of best operational practices. 
3. Facilitate the allocation of human and systems resources.  
4. Provide key training for all trading support operations personnel.
5. Co-ordinate user requirements for shared operational systems. 
6. Work with ECT NA to oversee the creation of a global internal control 
audit plan for trading support   activities.
7. Establish procedures for opening trading support operations offices and 
create key benchmarks for   measuring on-going trading risk controls.   
   
In this role, Barry and his team will ensure that all Enron operations in 
Europe meet the extremely high standards of trading support we expect 
throughout our organisation. Barry will report directly to myself and also to 
Sally Beck in her capacity as head of Global Risk Management Operations.

Barry has been involved in the European Energy Operations function since 1993 
and manages risk management administration, risk consolidation and reporting, 
contract administration, contract settlements, cash management and trading 
accounting for ECT Europe's physical commodity trading, energy derivatives 
trading and financial products trading. He has been with Enron since 1992, 
when he joined the company from Arthur Andersen. 

Please join me in congratulating Barry in his new role and supporting him and 
his team in this exciting challenge they have ahead.

