Message-ID: <9934822.1075849852931.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Tue, 6 Feb 2001 10:18:00 -0800 (PST)
From: mike.jordan@enron.com
To: sally.beck@enron.com
Subject: Re: Various Topics
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Mike Jordan
X-To: Sally Beck
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: BECK-S
X-FileName: sbeck.nsf

Thanks for the note

Great to see James - I am really warming to his style and we can do some good 
work on promoting a global standard for static reference data control - more 
to say on that next week

Looking forward to Dallas and am planning to return to Houston for Wed and 
Thurs ( with Steve and Richard  - although Richard is leaving on Wed night ( 
something about Valentine's night and only getting so much time away !! ) ). 
Thursday lunch sounds good - you know I love Mexican!! I will try to buy 
Shona and a few usual suspects dinner on Wednesday 

Speak to you soon - and good luck with the rest of the appraisals


   
	Enron Capital & Trade Resources Corp.
	
	From:  Sally Beck                           06/02/2001 17:24
	

To: Mike Jordan/LON/ECT@ECT
cc:  

Subject: Various Topics

No memo out yet on the Doorstep process.  I am still in the throws of 
completing the 13 reviews that I have to give - should be finished by 5:00.  
I will send the memo on Doorstep process to you, Fernley and Michael Brown 
before I leave for the day. 

I will be in the Calgary office Wednesday and Thursday with Peggy Hedstrom 
and her team.  Back in the Houston office on Friday. 

Hope that James' visit is going well.  Thanks for getting appointments 
organized for him. 

I look forward to seeing you in Dallas next week.  I am glad that you, 
Richard and Steve will be able to participate.  Are you still planning to 
come back to Houston after the meeting in Dallas?  I fly from Dallas to 
Austin on Tuesday night, so that I can do a full day of interviews at UT for 
summer interns on Wednesday.  I will be back in the office on Thursday and 
Friday that week.  Let me know if we can help in setting up any 
appointments.  We can do lunch on Thursday or Friday, if your schedule 
allows.  I can also set some time aside to perhaps download from our Dallas 
meeting and to follow up on some other issues.  I would offer dinner on 
Thursday night, but that is my birthday and I think (hope) that my family 
will have dinner plans for me that evening.  Is there someone else in Houston 
that you would like to have dinner with while you are here?   --Sally 

