Message-ID: <26656406.1075863692956.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Fri, 10 Mar 2000 06:38:00 -0800 (PST)
From: tara.rozen@enron.com
To: jane.allen@enron.com
Subject: Re: Transitional Assignments
Cc: sally.beck@enron.com, brent.price@enron.com, kim.melodick@enron.com, 
	lisa.mcrae@enron.com
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
Bcc: sally.beck@enron.com, brent.price@enron.com, kim.melodick@enron.com, 
	lisa.mcrae@enron.com
X-From: Tara Rozen
X-To: Jane Allen
X-cc: Sally Beck, Brent A Price, Kim Melodick, Lisa McRae
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Beck-S
X-FileName: sbeck.nsf

All

I have received a few notes about this since this one but I will try to 
respond to all questions here. Please see below responses in RED:




   
	Enron Capital & Trade Resources Corp.
	
	From:  Jane Allen                           08/03/2000 17:54
	

To: Tara Rozen/LON/ECT@ECT
cc: Sally Beck/HOU/ECT@ECT, Brent A Price/HOU/ECT@ECT, Kim 
Melodick/HOU/ECT@ECT 

Subject: Transitional Assignments


	

Please note this is confidential at this point!

To document what we discussed by phone, I met with Sally Beck and Brent Price 
today.  Fernley Dyson has a vacancy that he is attempting to fill, but it may 
be 3 to 6 months before the position is up and running.  To accomplish the 
need in the meantime, Sally and Brent have agreed to share the duties as 
follows:

Brent - April 1 to June 15
Sally - June 16 to August 15

They are traveling to the UK the week of 3/20 and would like to schedule some 
time with you on either Monday afternoon or Wednesday.  Please let us know 
what is good for you. 
I have free time on the morning of the 20th. I will book out a room from 
11-12am in HR. Please let me know if this is a problem.

Issues:

Housing - They will each be bringing their families with them (Brent - spouse 
and 2 small children - the baby will need a crib; Sally - husband and 3 
children - ages 15, 11 and 2).  I understand that the houses which have been 
vacated due to returning expats have all been filled, so can you have someone 
arrange for corporate housing that will accommodate them? I think the best 
way to go here is for us to use serviced apartments as it will be very 
difficult to find a lease for such a short period for this type of 
accommodation. My assistant, Lisa, has put a call in to a service who can 
help us find serviced accommodation in South Kensington/Chelsea area or in 
Dolphin Square where we have people now who are very satisfied. Is there a 
reason you are partial to South Kensington/Chelsea? What if we find 
accommodation in another nice area of London within a short commute to the 
office? When I have some options, I will let you know, probably on Monday.

Immigration - Due to the fact that they will be traveling back and forth and 
have made trips already, I feel it would be best to apply for work permits 
versus using the visa waiver.  I have sent them the forms and requested that 
Brent complete his and file immediately to increase chances of getting his 
sometime shortly after he arrives in the UK.  I have informed him that he 
should arrive without his family if the permit has not been received by April 
1. Brent's work permit will be submitted today and we may receive if before 
April 1st, but it is unlikely. The way it works for this is as follows: Brent 
will receive the work permit from us and if he is here, he will have to leave 
the UK and enter with the work permit for it to be validated. If his family 
are in Houston, they will need to receive entry clearance in the US prior to 
arriving in the UK. This takes approx 7 working days and they will require 
either Brent's original passport and work permit or a certified copy of each 
along with other things such as marriage and birth certificates. If Brent 
decides to bring his family with him to London prior to receiving the work 
permit, they must say they are coming on a vacation for a short period of 
time and have a return ticket to back it up. Once the permit is received, the 
family can either travel back to Houston and submit the entry clearance visas 
there or they can all travel to Amsterdam where they are currenlty issuing 
entry clearance without a problem. There is always a small element of risk in 
going to Amsterdam, however, as do not have to issue the stamps there, they 
just do it because they are nice! Work permits are arriving approx 4 weeks 
from date of submission. We can discuss all of this on the 20th.

Tax - Please confirm whether PAYE will need to be paid for them during the 
short term assignment and then reclaimed through a treaty benefit. PAYE is 
due after 60 days; however, if Brent and Sally are really only going to be 
here for approx 75 days, I am not going to inform the Revenue that they are 
here. If this extends beyond the set time, we can look at options but the 
only responsiblility that Brent and Sally will have is to ensure they 
complete the tax organiser in order for us to get the tax back. Also, as we 
would have to apply the treaty here, we need to ensure the salary costs stay 
in Houston. Jane, have you discussed this point? 

Benefits - I have suggested that they remain on US domestic payroll and 
benefits and, if medical claims arise that exceed what they would have spent 
in the US, they may claim the excess on the expense report. Agreed.

Per diem - We need to discuss the appropriate amount based on family size. 
Jane, please call me to discuss. I have left you a message, thanks

Let me know of any other issues we need to address.  As always, I appreciate 
your help.



Jane


