Message-ID: <25659708.1075863693004.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Wed, 8 Mar 2000 03:54:00 -0800 (PST)
From: jane.allen@enron.com
To: tara.rozen@enron.com
Subject: Transitional Assignments
Cc: sally.beck@enron.com, brent.price@enron.com, kim.melodick@enron.com
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
Bcc: sally.beck@enron.com, brent.price@enron.com, kim.melodick@enron.com
X-From: Jane Allen
X-To: Tara Rozen
X-cc: Sally Beck, Brent A Price, Kim Melodick
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Beck-S
X-FileName: sbeck.nsf

Please note this is confidential at this point!

To document what we discussed by phone, I met with Sally Beck and Brent Price 
today.  Fernley Dyson has a vacancy that he is attempting to fill, but it may 
be 3 to 6 months before the position is up and running.  To accomplish the 
need in the meantime, Sally and Brent have agreed to share the duties as 
follows:

Brent - April 1 to June 15
Sally - June 16 to August 15

They are traveling to the UK the week of 3/20 and would like to schedule some 
time with you on either Monday afternoon or Wednesday.  Please let us know 
what is good for you.

Issues:

Housing - They will each be bringing their families with them (Brent - spouse 
and 2 small children - the baby will need a crib; Sally - husband and 3 
children - ages 15, 11 and 2).  I understand that the houses which have been 
vacated due to returning expats have all been filled, so can you have someone 
arrange for corporate housing that will accommodate them?

Immigration - Due to the fact that they will be traveling back and forth and 
have made trips already, I feel it would be best to apply for work permits 
versus using the visa waiver.  I have sent them the forms and requested that 
Brent complete his and file immediately to increase chances of getting his 
sometime shortly after he arrives in the UK.  I have informed him that he 
should arrive without his family if the permit has not been received by April 
1.

Tax - Please confirm whether PAYE will need to be paid for them during the 
short term assignment and then reclaimed through a treaty benefit.

Benefits - I have suggested that they remain on US domestic payroll and 
benefits and, if medical claims arise that exceed what they would have spent 
in the US, they may claim the excess on the expense report.

Per diem - We need to discuss the appropriate amount based on family size.

Let me know of any other issues we need to address.  As always, I appreciate 
your help.

Jane