Message-ID: <21156169.1075863693026.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Fri, 3 Mar 2000 06:58:00 -0800 (PST)
From: barry.pearce@enron.com
To: sally.beck@enron.com
Subject: Update
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Barry Pearce
X-To: Sally Beck
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Beck-S
X-FileName: sbeck.nsf

Thanks for a great lunch. I am, on reflection, very excited about the things 
we discussed.

The Australian/Pacifice role would be a fantastic opportunity. Kinda - Comm 
Supp Controller/CFO/CAO (whatever...) - basically Sally's & Rick's (C) eyes 
whilst they're asleep (Tokyo support would report into Sydney - same time 
zones). It would also have risk, control, processes & procedures 
responsibilities - working directly with Ted's group. I'll work with them and 
face the 'challenge' so to speak.

Basically - running accounting, risk & controls - and keeping the global risk 
function (headed by yourself) with a flag waving 24 hours a day - kinda 
CFO/CAO/Controller for Enron goes Global/24 hours.

The idea - 'Enronise' the junior offices - put an experienced person in there 
to 'set the standards' and the tone of operations - and train the local 
employess in the ECT way. Working closeIy with IT, RAC, Risk, Operations 
etc...

I love the idea. And I think the timing (vis Helsinki etc..) is perfect.

I think it dovetails well with the current environment of putting the right - 
experienced - people in the right places in the world to ensure that the 
standards remain high - especially with EBS starting to spread into the 
'world'.

Fernley was very supportive on the idea. I guess we would need to speak to 
Commercial people.

I also, on the London subject, spoke to Brent. I think London would benefit 
from Brent - he's a good guy. It would also allow me a shot at the new role 
in say a 2/3 month roll-out - starting in the Summer.

Let's keep talking. Let me know how (if?) you want to progress things. Hope 
Orlando was fun.

B.


