Message-ID: <11474020.1075855873924.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Tue, 17 Oct 2000 07:23:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: fernley.dyson@enron.com
To: rod.sayers@enron.com, peter.hutton@enron.com, james.sandt@enron.com, 
	melissa.allen@enron.com, beth.apollo@enron.com, 
	phillip.lord@enron.com, buddy.aiken@enron.com, 
	stephen.wood@enron.com
Subject: DRAFT announcement
Cc: robert.hermann@enron.com, cullen.duke@enron.com, sally.beck@enron.com, 
	john.echols@enron.com
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
Bcc: robert.hermann@enron.com, cullen.duke@enron.com, sally.beck@enron.com, 
	john.echols@enron.com
X-From: Fernley Dyson
X-To: Rod Sayers, Peter Hutton, James Sandt, Melissa Allen, Beth Apollo, Phillip D Lord, Buddy Aiken, Stephen Wood
X-cc: Robert Hermann, Cullen Duke, Sally Beck, John Echols
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Beck-S
X-FileName: sbeck.nsf

I'm not one for announcements, but the word appears to be out to varying 
degrees, so here is my first cut at clarifying the situation. Prmary 
distribution would be Enron Europe, but your thoughts on content and 
distribution would be welcome.

Thanks

Fernley 



"Many of you will be aware of some recent and forthcoming appointments within 
commercial support in Enron Europe. Enron's rapid growth and the ability of 
our people to use their skills in different roles make this a dynamic 
process, but I have taken this opportunity to summarise changes at a senior 
level in our tax, accounting and transaction support groups.

Peter Hutton has joined us as Vice President, Head of US Tax, reporting to 
Rod Sayers.  Peter was previously a partner in Arthur Anderson and will be 
transitioning in to his new role over the next few months.
Jim Sandt  will be taking up a senior role with the Tax Department in Houston 
early in the new year.

Melissa Allen is to join us shortly as Vice President, Head of Financial 
Operations and Transaction Support, reporting to me. Melissa needs no 
introduction to many of you, as she has worked with Enron Europe as a senior 
manager in Arthur Anderson for the past 18 months. 
Beth Apollo will be returning to Houston in the early part of next year to 
take up a senior role in Enron North America's Energy Operations group. 
Phillip Lord is transitioning in to his new Houston - based role as Chief 
Accounting Officer for Enron Broadband Services.

Buddy Aiken and Stephen Wood will be taking on the lead roles in Transaction 
Support and Financial Operations respectively, reporting to Melissa Allen.

I am sure you will join me in welcoming Peter and Melissa to Enron, in 
congratulating Jim, Beth, Phillip, Buddy and Stephen, and wishing them all 
well in their new roles"

