Message-ID: <13449275.1075849829498.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Fri, 9 Mar 2001 00:31:00 -0800 (PST)
From: beth.apollo@enron.com
To: max.yzaguirre@enron.com
Subject: FW: Gordon Heaney's Acceptance
Cc: sally.beck@enron.com
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
Bcc: sally.beck@enron.com
X-From: Beth Apollo
X-To: Max Yzaguirre
X-cc: Sally Beck
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: BECK-S
X-FileName: sbeck.nsf

Max - Hi there, sounded like (from Jaime) you guys have had a busy week with 
various government officials.  I hope the result was good.

We all had a really helpful meeting here in Houston with those guys, and I 
just wanted to let you know that we have found a person to focus time on 
Mexico and work with Jaime and Agustin.  He is bi-lingual and very excited 
about the prospect.  We expect him to be proactive and help out quite a bit 
with setting up the new Mexico trading legal entity.   I have no doubt that 
this will fix most of the little issues that we discussed.  

We also assigned someone to come to Monterrey to set up Jaime and Agustin 
with system access where appropriate, and especially access to Livelink, our 
automated contract viewing system.  This should facilitate access to all 
Mexico contracts online (originals kept in Houston), and there should be no 
need to keep hard copies in Mexico.

Please let me know if you see any other areas where Energy Ops can help, or 
should be more involved.  

Beth
 -----Original Message-----
From:  Theriot, Kim  
Sent: Thursday, March 08, 2001 5:30 PM
To: Perez, Agustin; Williams, Jaime
Cc: Beth Apollo/HOU/ECT@ENRON; Heaney, Gordon
Subject: Gordon Heaney's Acceptance

Augustin/Jaime,

I just wanted to let you know that Gordon has accepted our offer to take on 
the new position supporting your trading organization.  He is very excited 
and looks forward to working with you both.  

We are going to work on a transition period for him.  He is currently 
finishing a project on Paper and Pulp settlements to automate those 
processes.  He would like to finish this process before he takes on his new 
assignment full time.  He anticipates the completion of the automation to be 
within the next few weeks.  In the meantime we will work on having him 
cross-train for his new responsibilities.

Please let me know of any questions that you have.

Kim Theriot
713-853-1771