Message-ID: <1735394.1075855815103.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Fri, 13 Oct 2000 04:19:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: beth.apollo@enron.com
To: sally.beck@enron.com
Subject: Re: Stuff
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Beth Apollo
X-To: Sally Beck
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Beck-S
X-FileName: sbeck.nsf

Hey there -- Life sounds horribly busy.  I figured it was.

Don't worry about me -- I just thought we should get things moving -- since 
now I have officially been replaced, and it has been announced to my direct 
reports here in London.   Fernley (not sure if you have spoken to him)  is 
anxious to put an announcement out to Enron Europe that Phillip Lord and I 
are leaving and that Melissa will be stepping in to replace us.
Since Phillip already has a place to go, it would be nice if we could at 
least say that I am going to North America Energy Ops, or something -- even 
if we don't have all of the details worked out.

I am not sure if you want me to come over and meet some of your commercial " 
customers"  --- also  - I have never met Delainey (I don't think)  -- but 
maybe knowing Frevert well is enough.  I am planning to come in November 
(first half) to work on Europe's plan and coordinate with Brent, Wes and the 
other groups under Frevert, so maybe I can meet some people then.  Would love 
to discuss

Monday is fine -- as I am sure today will be another crazy day.

I know how all of those reviews are.  John Sherriff put a o5 per review per 
day penalty on any dept head who didn't have their reviews  done by August 
15th, and of course I was on holiday the week before that, so I had 2 days to 
do 10 reviews.

Hopefully I can help you with that direct report problem.

If I don't talk to you today, then have a good weekend, 

Beth


   
	Enron Capital & Trade Resources Corp.
	
	From:  Sally Beck                           13/10/2000 01:19
	

To: Beth Apollo/LON/ECT@ECT
cc:  

Subject: Stuff

Crazy week -- 7:00 pm and I just finished a project for Delainey that I got 
at noon today.  Cancelled everything on the calendar and have been immersed 
ever since.  Patti gave me your message with your home number around 5:30 
today, just as she was leaving -- apologized for not giving it to me 
earlier.  However, given my immediate project, I don't think that I could 
have called until now.  And at 1:00am London time, I think that this e:mail 
is much better.  

I am still really crunched tomorrow morning.  All of our mid-year reviews 
must be completed by the time we have our ENA Office of the Chair staff 
meeting at 2:30 tomorrow.  Big push, after an over percentage completion rate 
of about 60% at our ENA meeting two weeks ago.  Some of those unfinished 
reviews were mine to give (16 direct reports is a killer).  I wrote three 
last night after Tyler went to bed, finished at 1:00 am and gave all three 
reviews this morning.  I have 5 more to write tonight, and to deliver 
tomorrow morning to be at 100%.  I will try to call you on my way into the 
office tomorrow morning from the car.  If I miss you then, it will be late 
afternoon Houston time before I could call you.  Next week shapes up to be 
MUCH better.  

I am definitely very interested in continuing our conversations.  Would love 
to have to over here and involved in operations.  So I will either catch you 
from my car tomorrow morning, or we can talk on Monday.  

