Message-ID: <5481766.1075856596857.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Thu, 20 Jul 2000 04:32:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: cheisler@starit.com
To: cheisler@starit.com
Subject: Department of Energy is deploying a Corporate Portal at facilitie s
 across the country
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Chris Heisler <cheisler@starit.com>
X-To: Chris Heisler <cheisler@starit.com>
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Kaminski-V
X-FileName: vkamins.nsf

STAR Information Technology brings has the tools needed to help energy
companies gain knowledge. If it's information from OASIS to Market prices.
The events that change prices such as weather and more are always just one
click away with STAR Information Technologys' powerful portal tools. Our
Portal products are the difference between seeing and doing. Hosting dynamic
applications such as on-line reports, calendars, e-mail, and commerce
services create a one-stop shop for users to go about almost all of their
daily tasks: analyzing customer trends, checking schedules, viewing revenue-
or project-related performance metrics, and buying or selling products.
Combining all the information relevant to users' work with the ability to
act on that information enables organizations to get more done.
Five Government Agencies Deploy Plumtree Corporate Portal at Hundreds of
Facilities-
The Naval Air Systems Command (NAVAIR), Department of Energy (DOE),
Department of Defense, National Institutes of Health and Army Public Affairs
Center are deploying a Corporate Portal at facilities across the country as
part of ongoing governmental initiatives to maximize efficiency, develop
more online content and provide private sector levels of customer service.
The Plumtree Corporate Portal integrates regulatory, enforcement and
incident database reports, enterprise applications and Internet services
into the agencies' portals as Portal Gadgets(tm), plug-in modules that embed
components of applications and interactive Internet services in a
personalized portal page. The Portal growth in the public sector is driven
by its success applying business technology to the specific challenges of
government, empowering federal agencies to simplify access to their data,
reduce paperwork, benefit from the resources on the Internet and share
information securely with their employees, contractors and constituencies.
For more information on how STAR Information Technology can help your
business turn knowledge into power contact us today at 508-359-6891 Ext 115.



Christopher K. Heisler
Product Manager
508-359-6892 Ext 115
www.starit.com
cheisler@starit.com

We Make Knowledge Power



