Message-ID: <24634786.1075857036518.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Thu, 23 Dec 1999 11:54:00 -0800 (PST)
From: rebrooks@earthlink.net
To: rebrooks@rbac.com
Subject: GPCM Summary 1999
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Robert Brooks <rebrooks@earthlink.net>
X-To: "'GPCM Distribution'" <rebrooks@rbac.com>
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Kaminski-V
X-FileName: vkamins.nsf

This has been a great year for RBAC and GPCM.
During the year we have doubled to 10 the number of GPCM licensees.
This means we've also doubled the number of wonderful people we've trained
and are supporting.
And, I sincerely mean it when I say it has been a real pleasure working
with you all.
One of the things we stress when we are selling GPCM is that it takes a
strong commitment on the part of the licensee, a commitment to find skilled
and dedicated people to make optimal use of this sophisticated tool.  And,
I'm happy to report that we have that quality in the GPCM teams we work
with.
Next year we have some big challenges.  We will be converting the system
from Office 97 to Office 2000 and will also need to make sure it will run
in the Windows 2000 environment.
We will be adding new flexibility in defining our transportation zone price
curves to enable users, especially pipeline users, to test variations of
pricing strategies for their impacts on basis and utilization.
We will be adding a capability for modeling future FT contracting.
We will upgrade our existing Database Comparison program to allow you to
select those items you want to have automatically updated in your own
databases.
We will continue to work with RDI to improve pipeline and storage
infrastructure representations, to provide interfaces between GASdat and
GPCM, and to give you regular optional updates for your own databases.
We are beginning to plan out a new website dedicated to GPCM licensees (and
possibly prospects).  We have acquired gpcm.rbac.com and gpcm.net for this
purpose.
In making these various changes, we look also to you, our existing
licensees, for enhancement and improvement ideas.  We are planning to
conduct interviews of our licensees during the next 30 - 60 days to find
out what you like, but also what you would like to see improved, as well as
some new ideas for GPCM.

I would like to thank the following people for their contributions to GPCM
during 1999.

o Liam Leahy for his excellent marketing, sales, and planning support
o Charles Carr for his quality work on our website and support with subtle
Visual Basic programming issues
o Richard Berman for thorough research on design tools and skilled Windows
programming
o Richard McBride for continuing support and development of his EMNET
optimization program
o Aaron and James Brooks for design and production of the PowerPoint
pipeline maps now available in GPCM
o Mike Farina and RDI for their continuing improvement of the GPCM data and
GASdat database
o GPCM users who have found data bugs and reported them to use so that we
could get them corrected
o GPCM users who have suggested new features which would make GPCM a better
product
o GPCM users who have given us sales leads during the year
o GPCM users who have used GPCM to help their companies make better plans
and decisions, which is, after all, the purpose for which it was designed

We hope all of you have a wonderful holiday season and look forward to an
even better year 2000.

Bob Brooks
