Message-ID: <19858276.1075855870947.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Tue, 12 Sep 2000 03:13:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: sheri.thomas@enron.com
To: sally.beck@enron.com
Subject: IT issues
Cc: jennifer.denny@enron.com
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
Bcc: jennifer.denny@enron.com
X-From: Sheri Thomas
X-To: Sally Beck
X-cc: Jennifer deBoisblanc Denny
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Beck-S
X-FileName: sbeck.nsf

I just wanted to make sure you were aware of one thing in case it comes up on 
Friday (or you can bring it up if you would like...).  The only real system 
issues we have (outside of EnronOnline IT resources!) are the bridge 
resources.  Currenlty, EOL deals bridge to TAGG, Sitara, and Enpower.  We 
have had some issues in the past trying to get bridge issues corrected, and 
nail down reasons for bridge failures (among other things).  The problem has 
arisen due to the fact that each bridge really only has one person that is 
fully capable of correcting problems, and until last week, these three 
individuals really did not have anyone defining the bridge as part of their 
day to day responsibilities.  When Tom Moore left early this year, these guys 
were left in limbo.  Luckily, they were seldom out, and all three of them 
were very good at getting back to us for the most part.  

Now for the good news - Jennifer and I had a meeting with Richard Burchfield 
last week - the bridges are now part of his world.  This was initiated by a 
memo Jennifer copied Beth on regarding bridge failures.  I will forward this 
to you as well.  Richard understands the importance of the bridge and ensured 
us that he will add some structure to this group.  It is especially critical 
when the Sitara bridge goes down late morning, and we are doing next day 
physical deals on EnronOnline.  I have a good working relationship with him 
(from the old Synergi days), so I think this will be great for us.  I 
provided him copies of the IT Compliance flow charts related to the bridges 
so that he could gain an understanding of how they work.   Since this 
meeting, Jennifer has contacted additional resources that Richard referred us 
to, and they have been very responsive (one of the guys volunteered his pager 
and told us to call him any time regarding any bridge...).  So, that said, 
hopefully our only "issue" is correcting itself due to Jennifer's 
perseverance!

Apart from that, we do have an item on our wish list (EnronOnline IT) to 
simplify the messages that are sent across the bridges to hopefully speed up 
processing time.  Right now the bridges have to do a lot of thinking to 
determine how to book certain deals - we want to eliminate that thinking by 
adding a deal type identifier on the deal which will automatically tell the 
bridge what to do.  I can give you more details on this if you'd like, but 
this is short and sweet explanation...

Let me know if you have any questions.
Thanks
ST