Message-ID: <17379575.1075849852146.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Thu, 15 Mar 2001 09:48:00 -0800 (PST)
From: torrey.moorer@enron.com
To: louise.kitchen@enron.com, david.forster@enron.com, kimberly.hillis@enron.com, 
	jeffrey.shankman@enron.com, lorraine.becker@enron.com, 
	leonardo.pacheco@enron.com, sally.beck@enron.com, 
	andy.zipper@enron.com, lola.willis@enron.com, 
	daniel.diamond@enron.com, bob.shults@enron.com, 
	tina.spiller@enron.com, savita.puthigai@enron.com
Subject: RE: EOL Average Deal Count as of 3-14-01
Cc: sheri.thomas@enron.com, torrey.moorer@enron.com, jennifer.denny@enron.com, 
	matt.motsinger@enron.com, simone.rose@enron.com, 
	adam.johnson@enron.com, lola.willis@enron.com
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
Bcc: sheri.thomas@enron.com, torrey.moorer@enron.com, jennifer.denny@enron.com, 
	matt.motsinger@enron.com, simone.rose@enron.com, 
	adam.johnson@enron.com, lola.willis@enron.com
X-From: Torrey Moorer
X-To: Louise Kitchen, David Forster, Kimberly Hillis, Jeffrey A Shankman, Lorraine Becker, Leonardo Pacheco, Sally Beck, Andy Zipper, Lola Willis, Daniel Diamond, Bob Shults, Tina Spiller, Savita Puthigai
X-cc: Sheri Thomas, Torrey Moorer, Jennifer deBoisblanc Denny, Matt Motsinger, Simone La Rose, Adam Johnson, Lola Willis
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: BECK-S
X-FileName: sbeck.nsf

Special note on this week's report. 

The Weekly Average Deal Count Report is now available for download at the EOL 
Intranet Site located at http//:eolinfo.enron.com.

To access the latest Average Deal Count Report, simply follow the link above. 
Once on the Intranet site, select "Reports", then go into the "Secured 
Reports" section and choose the "Regional Analysis" report from the dropdown 
list. Enter your regular Windows login ID and password when prompted and the 
report will load automatically.

We welcome your feedback, so if you have any questions or comments regarding 
the new Intranet site and the reports posted there, please contact Peter 
Berzins at x57597 or Bryan Deluca at x36161. 

Thank you,

Torrey Moorer
Manager, EOL Product Control Group Reporting
	
	


Notes for this Week's Report:

*  North American Gas has kept its overall average daily EOL deal count 
steady at about 2,950 trades a day since January.  This is about 180 trades a 
day less than the November average of 3,130, which is still the Life to Date 
high.  The overall average daily EOL volumes have remained steady as well.

*  The East and Central Regions of North American Gas have been the main 
reason EOL Gas transactions have remained steady.  The East Region has 
increased its overall average daily EOL deal count by about 20% since 
January, from 632 to 798 deals per day.  The Central Region has increased its 
overall average daily EOL deal count by about 50% since January, from 676 to 
1,018 deals per day.

*  US Power trading via EOL has now levelled off to average daily EOL Deal 
Count of about 452 deals per day.   This is mostly up from 181 deals per day 
in December, to 340 in January, to 449 in February.  In addition, the average 
daily Non-EOL Deal Count has also levelled off at about 483 deals per day.  
The average daily EOL volumes have remained fairly steady.

*  US East Power trading via EOL has now dropped off since February.  It has 
decreased its average daily EOL Deal Count by about 13% since February, from 
359 deals per day to 313.  In addition, the average daily Non-EOL Deal Count 
has now decreased by about 7% since February, from 269 to 250 deals per day.  
The average daily EOL volumes have remained steady.

*  UK Gas trading has continued to see a steady increase since December on 
EOL.  They were averaging close to 51 transactions per day in December 2000.  
Recently they have been climbing to 81 deals per day in January, 111 in 
February, and now 167 in March.  This represents about a 227% increase.

*  LPG's has decreased its total monthly EOL deal count from a consistent 450 
trades or so from November through January, to only 250 trades in the month 
of February, and only about 84 trades so far in the month of March .  This 
represents about a 62% decrease from previous months.  The total monthly EOL 
volumes have decreased similarly as well.

*  Enron Metals trades done via EOL has increased since February, from a 
daily average of 497 to a daily average of 629 for March.  This represents 
about a 27% increase.  The average daily EOL volumes have increased as well.

---------------
The following files contain a graphical view of the average deal count and 
volumes per month by Commodity for EOL and OTC transactions since the launch 
of EnronOnline. This information is for comparative analysis only.  Do not 
update links when opening these files.  


AVERAGE DEAL COUNTS FOR COMMODITIES (excluding Global Products, which 
displays monthly totals)




NA GAS BREAKOUT BY REGION (Non-Averaged, including Volume and Notional Value)




If you have any questions regarding this breakout, please contact one of the 
following:

Torrey Moorer x3-6218
Pete Berzins x5-7597
Adam Johnson x5-4877

Pete
EnronOnline






