Message-ID: <20431982.1075855871247.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Sun, 16 Jul 2000 20:59:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: sheri.thomas@enron.com
To: sally.beck@enron.com
Subject: London - URGENT
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Sheri Thomas
X-To: Sally Beck
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Beck-S
X-FileName: sbeck.nsf

I left you a couple of messages last week regarding the trip, and since I am 
here, I don't know if we will get a chance to actually talk to each other 
today (especially since it is your first day back in the office), so I want 
to give you the details in case you get a call from Louise.

I know you and I talked about the trip, and that the entire team was going to 
go to London for team building in smaller groups of 4-5 people.  I did not 
think it right that everyone in the group go and Cecilia not be included.  
There is a business reason for her to be here, as she is working on the PCG 
Operations Manual (it is very outdated and needs revising).  The team in 
Houston has made edits, so she will be editing and reviewing the doc with the 
London team for their changes while we are here.  

I was also told that it was Enron policy that employees fly business class on 
International flights.  Louise stated that Sheriff does not want people 
flying business class, but I was not aware of this.  For future trips, 
everyone will fly coach.  I also have Cecilia rooming with Melba to save 
costs on the trip, and others will do the same on future trips if necessary. 

I told Dave about a month ago that we were going at this time, which he does 
not remember...Dave made the comment to me that he feels like he is more 
aware of what is going on in London than in Houston and that he and Amita 
spend at least an hour or two on the phone each day, and that maybe I need to 
report to him instead of you.  I really do not have time to spend 2 hours out 
of my day updating him on every little thing that the group does.  I do make 
him aware of issue/questions, but I think this is overkill.  I told him it 
does make sense for me to report to you b/c we support ongoing operations of 
EnronOnline and are closely linked to the groups that fall beneath your 
organization.

As you can see, I am a little more than frustrated with all this.  I have set 
up weekly meeting with Forester going forward, but I really feel like I 
should be able to run the group without doing much more than this.  My 
decision making should be trusted and I think it has been proven in the 
past.  Even when I do ask Dave questions and we try to get information from 
him, he is slow to respond b/c he is so involved in so many things and he 
becomes a bottleneck of sorts.  I do not want my job to become the person 
that just tells Dave what my group is doing.  If they (Dave and Louise) do 
not feel like I am capable of running the group or doing a good job, I really 
would like to know....

If you do get a chance to call me, please do.  I can be reached at 83035378 
here in London.  I tried to send most of this via e-mail b/c I am in the 
middle of everyone here and don't know how much I will be able to talk.  

Thanks
Sheri 