Message-ID: <10938187.1075863692801.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Thu, 12 Oct 2000 08:45:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: sheri.thomas@enron.com
To: sally.beck@enron.com
Subject: Update
Cc: jennifer.denny@enron.com
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
Bcc: jennifer.denny@enron.com
X-From: Sheri Thomas
X-To: Sally Beck
X-cc: Jennifer deBoisblanc Denny
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Beck-S
X-FileName: sbeck.nsf

Here's just a quick summary of what we have going on...(not sure how quick 
this is going to be!)

EnronOnline
Offering products on other exchanges (HoustonStreet and True Quote).  We are 
going to offer specific products (various Gas and Power products) to 
customers who have execute rights to these products on these two platforms.  
Therefore, we will have three feeds to deal with and will need new 
applications built to support the interfaces.  We will be responsible for 
adding/deleting products, ensuring the sites match ours, reporting trades on 
these systems, bridging applicable data to downstream systems, etc.  Enron 
gets an equity ownership in the platforms depending on activity.
Opening up EnronOnline to brokers.  We are negotiating with three brokers 
right now.  They will have to pay a one year licensing fee to have access to 
the site, and we will allow them to transact for specific counterparties 
only.  We will also need applications built and establish specific processes 
to support this.
Wish List - we have a list of approx. 180 times that we need the developers 
to work on for us.  Jay Webb committed to Louise a few weeks back (when I was 
in her office) that we would get a resource (specifically Chris Luttrel and 
his team).  I think you are aware of this.  Chris is now moving on to do 
something else and none of our items have been addressed in three weeks.  We 
have had weekly meetings the last three weeks with the IT team (Mark Dilworth 
and company...).  Basically, since Mark has decided to leave the group, 
nothing is being addressed.  I am going to speak to Dave tomorrow about this 
and escalate from there necessary.  This needs a more detailed explanation - 
I am going to try to get some time with you next week.
Steel - I will discuss with Dave tomorrow.  He basically told me not to do 
anything (another topic of discussion....)
We are working on enhancing our existing intranet site for the PCG
Louise has asked that I not allocate any of the PCG time to Europe - I don't 
agree with this because I have four people preparing the management report on 
a daily basis and I have a call center that also supports Europe.  I tried to 
argue my point but did not get very far : )  I am going to talk to Dave about 
it some more.
Working on bridging to Thunderball and the new weather application
Legal/Credit - we do not always get timely responses from the groups - Credit 
is improving (they hired a new person), but Legal has one person responsible 
for new CP set up (Tana Jones).  When she is out, all application processing 
stops.  I am going to talk to Mark Taylor about appointing a back up at a 
minimum.  Tana does a great job, but our activity is really increasing (she 
also supports Clickpaper), so it is becoming an issue.
We have set another record today - we have already done 3,358 trades!!!!
No new news from Canada on power trading - Legal needs to sign off.  In Mark 
Taylor's shop
Argentina in the works - probably end of month. 

Clickpaper
We have so much, I am not sure where to start.  I had lunch today with Jeff 
Harbert to discuss what our needs were.  We need tools from reporting to 
credit...  
The commercial group is really wanting to start offering more products, and 
are starting to hire marketing people and traders.  The activity is really 
picking up
The contractors are working weekends (Call Center).  I am working the 
Commercial group to discontinue this.  We are not even getting that many 
calls during the week, and we have not received one call on Sat/Sun since 
launch (July)

Commodity Logic
Dale has been very involved in all the discussions and has been a great 
resource (I have received several compliments from the NetWorks team on his 
contribution)
They have not yet released the first module (Financial Mgmt - CFO).  Should 
be very soon

DealBench
No external customers - very slow developing....  Staying involved and in 
touch with the Commercial team

Other
I am still looking for an assistant.  I sent five resumes down to staffing 
and a week later the interviews were not scheduled.  I went down to complain 
and two of them were scheduled.   A week later, the other three were yet to 
be scheduled, so I am doing it myself.  I think we have some real issues in 
the staffing group - this is not the first time.
We are working on Disaster Recovery for the group.  
Super Saturday - I would like our team to participate.  Do you have an idea 
of who all is interviewing?  We would like to be involved.
We are looking at holiday coverage now to ensure we have coverage
I talked to Mary Sloan (SAP) and Keith Clark (Call Center) is working with 
her.  I think she really appreciates the help/input.  
Have you had a chance to review the announcement letter re:reorg?


Sorry for the long-winded  message....
Thanks!  Talk to you soon.
Sheri