Message-ID: <26946255.1075863692854.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Sun, 16 Jul 2000 22:25:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: sheri.thomas@enron.com
To: sally.beck@enron.com
Subject: update
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Sheri Thomas
X-To: Sally Beck
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Beck-S
X-FileName: sbeck.nsf

since I will be out tomorrow for our meeting, I thought I would send this on 
to you.  I have added explanations in red for you.

Sheri
---------------------- Forwarded by Sheri Thomas/HOU/ECT on 07/17/2000 11:04 
AM ---------------------------
   


From:  Sheri Thomas                                                           
  07/17/2000 05:04 AM	
	
	
	                           
	

To: David Forster/Corp/Enron@Enron
cc:  
Subject: update

Just a couple of things, since we will not be able to meet this week.

The auditors have started review no. 2 of the management report.  I imagine 
it will take them at least a couple of weeks  per Louise's request, the 
auditors are re-reviewing the management report to ensure that all the 
changes were made and the report is now accurate
I think you are aware of all the new products Dale is working on (!!!) we 
have several things in the works right now, the primary ones being a park and 
loan agreement that will be managed out of Chicago, and reliable power
Lots and lots of ad hoc reporting (see my earlier e-mail regarding timing of 
these reports - we need a decision quickly - this is taking up most of Matt's 
time, and with the additional reports requested, it will take up the rest of 
it)  I have been sending you the weekly reports we are doing to John and 
Jeff.  Louise asked that we provide similar reports for Europe.  We are 
starting this week on these
We really need to push the profiles manager application - we are getting 
swamped with all the new customers and products (Frank was to talk to Mark D. 
on Friday - I should have an update from him today)  this new application 
will save a ton of manual work - this is something we started as soon as I 
took over the group, and also was one of the auditors comments.  Currently, 
we are manually entering profiles directly into EOL.  This application we 
requested will allow each of the depts (Credit, Global and Legal) to enter 
their own profiles into EOL, and we will just become the reviewer of the data 
via daily reporting.  The application has been tested, but due to the fact 
that the IT group is so busy, we have been placed on the back-burner.  I am 
going to turn up the heat on this b/c we are getting overloaded.
New reporting application - we are in the process of testing now.   It will 
probably be at least a month before it is completed.  This is our new Oracle 
application that will replace the Access report Euginio built
Torrey will be attending the 8am meeting for me in the morning and will send 
me notes  this is the weekly marketing/phase 2 meeting
I am currently reviewing the latest version of the price posting agreement to 
determine what our roles will be once we are posting prices on the other 
platforms (looks like most of it will fall in Dale's world)  You probably saw 
the announcement that we are going to post prices on other websites 
(HoustonStreet and True Quote) that was made on Thursday last week.  
Basically, we have 90 days to make this happen.  IT will build the link to 
these other sites, and we will need to ensure that price are reflected 
properly and that product long and short descriptions are accurate.  I have 
read about 25% of the agreement thus far and am developing a list of 
questions and concerns surrounding this.
We still are not including the proper weather valuation in the management 
report - the numbers are not going to be significant, but we need to report 
this appropriately asap.  Any decision here?  We have been working with the 
weather risk groups to determine how to appropriately value the weather 
transactions.  About a month ago, we reached an agreement with them and have 
been waiting on Dave's approval to change the valuation ever since.  
Keith has made some suggestions on how we can improve the Remedy application 
- I am reviewing while I am here  This is the application that the call 
center uses to track issues
I will send you the suggestions Stephanie has for improving the new security 
application - she will document these for me today  A new SRRS system is in 
place via the Intranet. 

stuff for you -
Carrie S. will begin her 6 month assignment now.  She will be in Australia 
for 3 weeks to assist Justin (the PCG person in the Pacific), then to London 
for a month to work with Amita, and the duration will be spent working with 
the London EOL Marketing team
Justin just completed 3 weeks of training on EOL and EOL applications.  I 
think he will do an excellent job - I was very impressed with his questions 
and how quickly he picked things up.


Just send me any questions you have -

Thanks
Sheri

