Message-ID: <9621637.1075840777593.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Tue, 10 Apr 2001 11:22:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: shirley.crenshaw@enron.com
To: julie.pechersky@enron.com
Subject: RE: Various Market Data Charges to the Research Group for February
 2001
Cc: vince.kaminski@enron.com, maureen.raymond@enron.com
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
Bcc: vince.kaminski@enron.com, maureen.raymond@enron.com
X-From: Shirley Crenshaw <Shirley Crenshaw/HOU/ECT@ECT>
X-To: Julie Pechersky <Julie Pechersky/ENRON@enronXgate@ENRON>
X-cc: Vince J Kaminski <Vince J Kaminski/HOU/ECT@ECT>, Maureen Raymond <Maureen Raymond/HOU/ECT@ECT>
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: KAMINSKI-V
X-FileName: vincent kaminski 1-30-02.pst

Julie:

I talked to both Maureen and Tanya and neither one want this service and
have not been using it.  

Maureen told me that she told you a year ago that she did not want Telerate 
(when she was supporting Gary Hickerson's group on 30).  If that is the case, 
we probably need a refund.

Let me know if there is anything that can be done about this.

The only person in our group that wants Telerate is Jason Sokolov and I
put in a request for that yesterday.  Please cancel everything else.

Thanks!

Shirley






From:	Julie Pechersky/ENRON@enronXgate on 04/09/2001 12:33 PM
To:	Shirley Crenshaw/HOU/ECT@ECT
cc:	 
Subject:	RE: Various Market Data Charges to the Research Group for February 2001

Hi Shirley,
 Regarding Telerate:  I can cancel the service for both Maurenn and Tanya, but another name commonly used for the Telerate application is Bridge or Bridgestation so you may want to just ask the two of them once more to be sure that they do not use it.  Just let me know and I will cancel billing

Jason can get access to it by submitting an e-request for him for Telerate.  When you go into E-request and it is prompting you for what application to choose, type in the words Market Data and hit Search.  Telerate will pop up as an option and within that choose the role Basic Energy.  We will take care of it from there.

I will also remove Hector Campos from Reuters.  Was there anyone else being charged for Reuters services that are not needed?

I will also remove Clayton Vernon.  I do not see anything under the name Brad Amoine, is this the correct spelling of his name?  I will also find
out where Shalesh's charges should be moved to.

Thanks for updating us and let me know if there is anything else.

Julie

 -----Original Message-----
From: 	Jackson, Clifford  
Sent:	Wednesday, April 04, 2001 1:44 PM
To:	Crenshaw, Shirley
Cc:	Pechersky, Julie
Subject:	RE: Various Market Data Charges to the Research Group for February 2001

Hi Shirley.  I've copied this to Julie Pechersky, who maintains the Market Data database, and will be able to make the user changes you request.  She'll also be able to tell you how / when Telerate can be enabled for Mr. Sokolov.

We get the billing data from her, so once it is correct there, it will be billed correctly.

Cliff Jackson

 -----Original Message-----
From: 	Crenshaw, Shirley  
Sent:	Wednesday, April 04, 2001 1:31 PM
To:	Jackson, Clifford
Cc:	Kaminski, Vince
Subject:	Various Market Data Charges to the Research Group for February 2001

Clifford:

In reviewing our February EIS Billing Summary for Co#0413, CC#107043,
I have several questions.

Telerate: (February charges: $3,032,35)
I polled the group and only one person has asked for Telerate and he is
not shown being charged for it.    That is Jason Sokolov.  He would like to
have access to Telerate.  If you could let me know how to get that for him.

The largest percent of the Telerate charges appear to be for Maureen
Raymond, who says that she does not use Telerate.  Could she be accessing
some data that she does not know is Telerate?  Please let me know.  If there
are individual accounts for Telerate the only one we need is for Jason Sokolov,
unless Maureen's charges are for something that she does not know is Telerate.
Tanya Tamarchenko does not need Telerate and she has the second largest
percentage of the charges.  Anyway, the only Telerate subscription we need is
for Jason Sokolov.

Reuters: (February charges:  $405.96)
No one in Research uses Reuters.  I believe most of the charges are for Hector 
Campos who used it when he was on the trading desk.  When he rotated into the 
Research group he did not need it any longer, but is still being billed for it.  Please 
remove from the Research Cost Center.

The following individuals are no longer with Enron or no longer with Research
and their accounts should be removed from the Research Cost Center.

Clayton Vernon		No longer with the Research Group	Remove his LIM/LIM/EXCEL and LIM Core charges from the Research Cost Center
Brad Amoine		No longer with Enron			Remove his LIM/LIM/EXCEL and LIM Core charges from the Research Cost Center
Shalesh Ganjoo	No longer with the Research Group	Remove his LIM and LIM Core charges from the Research Cost Center

I hope this is not too confusing!
 
Please advise.

Thanks!

Shirley Crenshaw







