Message-ID: <11736221.1075856586338.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Mon, 18 Sep 2000 15:36:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: listserv@peach.ease.lsoft.com
To: vince.kaminski@enron.com
Subject: Command confirmation request (4E46C824)
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: "L-Soft list server at PEACH.EASE.LSOFT.COM (1.8d)" <LISTSERV@PEACH.EASE.LSOFT.COM>
X-To: Vince J Kaminski
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Kaminski-V
X-FileName: vkamins.nsf

Your command:

                   SUBSCRIBE FRBNYRMAG1 Vince Kaminski

has  been received.  You must  now reply  to this  message (as  explained
below) to  complete your subscription.  The purpose of  this confirmation
procedure is to  check that the address  LISTSERV is about to  add to the
list for your subscription is reachable.  This is a typical procedure for
high-volume lists and  all new subscribers are subjected to  it - you are
not  being  singled  out.  Every  effort  has  been  made  to  make  this
verification as  simple and painless  as possible. Thanks in  advance for
your cooperation.

To confirm  the execution of your  command, simply point your  browser to
the following URL:

   http://peach.ease.lsoft.com/scripts/wa.exe?OK=4E46C824&L=FRBNYRMAG1

Alternatively, if  you have no WWW  access, you can reply  to the present
message and type  "ok" (without the quotes) as the  text of your message.
Just the word "ok" - do not  retype the command. This procedure will work
with any mail  program that fully conforms to the  Internet standards for
electronic  mail. If  you receive  an error  message, try  sending a  new
message  to  LISTSERV@PEACH.EASE.LSOFT.COM  (without  using  the  "reply"
function - this is very important) and  type "ok 4E46C824" as the text of
your message.

Finally, your  command will be  cancelled automatically if  LISTSERV does
not receive your confirmation within 48h. After that time, you must start
over and resend the command to get a new confirmation code. If you change
your mind and decide that you do  NOT want to confirm the command, simply
discard the present message and let the request expire on its own.