Message-ID: <2087964.1075857027626.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Fri, 19 May 2000 04:29:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: enron.announcements@enron.com
To: all.corp@enron.com
Subject: Virus Update: PLEASE READ
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Enron Announcements
X-To: ALL Enron Corp
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Kaminski-V
X-FileName: vkamins.nsf

There are many different variations of the "ILOVEYOU" computer virus still 
being reported.  The IT Infrastructure team is continually updating our virus 
software as new versions become available, but it is extremely important that 
you do not open any attachments that you do not regularly receive from 
business associates.  Even business associates you are very familiar with 
could be sending you the virus without knowing it, so unless you are 
expecting an email from them with an specified attachment please do not open 
it.  If you are unsure whether to open an attachment please do not open it.  
Call your HelpDesk to ask any questions and to get verification if required.

We may need you to log out and log back in during the day as new anti virus 
updates become available.  We appreciate your cooperation while we all work 
to keep Enron's computing environment secure.

Please note the following Enron Policies regarding viruses: 

Email

Malicious Code (Virus) Screening
In addition to the Enron requirement for email attachments (received and 
sent) to be screened for malicious code (viruses, Trojan Horses, etc.), users 
of Enron information resources are required to detach email attachments that 
are received on to their hard drive for local virus screening purposes. 

All executables (*.bat, *exe, *.com, *.vbs) files should never be launched 
from email without first consulting with IT. 

Virus Alerts
The Internet is constantly being flooded with information about computer 
viruses and Trojan Horses. However, within among real virus notices are 
computer virus hoaxes. While these hoaxes do not infect systems, they are 
still time consuming and costly to handle. It only wastes bandwidth and 
unnecessarily alarms other computer users.

Please, do not perpetuate unconfirmed warnings about viruses and Trojan 
Horses. If you receive an invalidated warning, don't pass it to all your 
friends, pass it to your IT computer security manager to validate first. 

Enron 
Information Risk Management
713-853-5536