Message-ID: <30841499.1075856582812.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Wed, 4 Apr 2001 06:30:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: shirley.crenshaw@enron.com
To: clifford.jackson@enron.com
Subject: Various Market Data Charges to the Research Group for February 2001
Cc: vince.kaminski@enron.com
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
Bcc: vince.kaminski@enron.com
X-From: Shirley Crenshaw
X-To: Clifford Jackson
X-cc: Vince J Kaminski
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Kaminski-V
X-FileName: vkamins.nsf

Clifford:

In reviewing our February EIS Billing Summary for Co#0413, CC#107043,
I have several questions.

Telerate: (February charges: $3,032,35)
I polled the group and only one person has asked for Telerate and he is
not shown being charged for it.    That is Jason Sokolov.  He would like to
have access to Telerate.  If you could let me know how to get that for him.

The largest percent of the Telerate charges appear to be for Maureen
Raymond, who says that she does not use Telerate.  Could she be accessing
some data that she does not know is Telerate?  Please let me know.  If there
are individual accounts for Telerate the only one we need is for Jason 
Sokolov,
unless Maureen's charges are for something that she does not know is Telerate.
Tanya Tamarchenko does not need Telerate and she has the second largest
percentage of the charges.  Anyway, the only Telerate subscription we need is
for Jason Sokolov.

Reuters: (February charges:  $405.96)
No one in Research uses Reuters.  I believe most of the charges are for 
Hector 
Campos who used it when he was on the trading desk.  When he rotated into the 
Research group he did not need it any longer, but is still being billed for 
it.  Please 
remove from the Research Cost Center.

The following individuals are no longer with Enron or no longer with Research
and their accounts should be removed from the Research Cost Center.

Clayton Vernon  No longer with the Research Group Remove his LIM/LIM/EXCEL 
and LIM Core charges from the Research Cost Center
Brad Amoine  No longer with Enron   Remove his LIM/LIM/EXCEL and LIM Core 
charges from the Research Cost Center
Shalesh Ganjoo No longer with the Research Group Remove his LIM and LIM Core 
charges from the Research Cost Center

I hope this is not too confusing!
 
Please advise.

Thanks!

Shirley Crenshaw




