Message-ID: <2350087.1075856616273.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Wed, 27 Sep 2000 10:12:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: owner-pjm-customer-info@pjm.com
To: pjm-customer-info@risc1.pjm.com
Subject: MAAC Executive Board Files Restructuring Agreement
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: owner-pjm-customer-info@pjm.com
X-To: pjm-customer-info@risc1.pjm.com
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Kaminski-V
X-FileName: vkamins.nsf

Message sent from the pjm-customer-info mailing list at 
pjm-customer-info@majordomo.pjm.com:

MAAC Executive Board Files Restructuring Agreement

September 27, 2000
Norristown, PA:

The Mid-Atlantic Area Council (MAAC), one of the ten regional reliability
councils of the North American Electric Reliability Councils (NERC), filed a 
new
agreement on September 22 regarding the governance of MAAC with the Federal
Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC). MAAC's basic purpose is to ensure the
reliability of the interconnected bulk power system in the region.  MAAC's 
area
of responsibility covers the same geographical region as the control area
operated by the PJM Independent System Operator (PJM ISO), consisting of all 
or
parts of the states of  Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Maryland, Delaware, 
Virginia,
and the District of Columbia. The MAAC restructuring process began years ago 
and
is expected, with FERC approval, to be implemented on January 1, 2001.

"We are excited to be positioning the MAAC organization to address the needs 
of
the new competitive era, thanks to the interest and participation of the
stakeholders for over two years." stated Pete Landrieu, MAAC Executive Board
Chair.

Phillip G. Harris, Regional Manager of MAAC, commented "The relationship 
between
reliability and markets will be enhanced and strengthened by the MAAC
restructuring. We are also pleased to be making this change as effectively as
possible through the use of existing PJM organizational and other resources. "

Under the filed agreement, a new MAAC Members Committee is chartered with the
creation of the approval process of the MAAC Reliability Principles and
Standards. Other new MAAC Committees are chartered, most notably, a MAAC 
Energy
Market Committee to serve as a forum for the discussion of the impact of
reliability on the commercial market place, and the marketplace on 
reliability.
The agreement also provides for stakeholder representation on the MAAC Board.
Appropriate amendments to existing PJM agreements will be discussed with the 
PJM
members and filed with the FERC.

The Mid-Atlantic Area Council was established in December 1967 to augment the
reliability of the bulk electric supply systems of its members through
coordinated planning of generation and transmission facilities.  The MAAC 
Region
encompasses nearly 50,000 square miles from Virginia to New York and from the
Atlantic Ocean to the Great Lakes. Under the existing MAAC Agreement and the
Operating Agreement of PJM Interconnection, L.L.C., MAAC and PJM members are
obligated to comply with MAAC and NERC operating and planning principles and
standards.



Please DO NOT REPLY to this message. If you have a question for PJM Customer
Relations and Training, please send an e-mail to custsvc@pjm.com.

To unsubscribe from this list, send an e-mail to majordomo@majordomo.pjm.com
containing only the following line in the body of the e-mail:

unsubscribe pjm-customer-info