Message-ID: <11019812.1075856611393.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Mon, 28 Aug 2000 05:15:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: william.smith@enron.com
To: vince.kaminski@enron.com
Subject: Giuseppe's bio
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: William Smith
X-To: Vince J Kaminski
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Kaminski-V
X-FileName: vkamins.nsf

Vince,

I will take care of the few typos, capitalizations, etc., but I wanted to get 
this to you asap.  He has a fine sense of humor!

Sam

---------------------- Forwarded by William Smith/Corp/Enron on 08/28/2000 
12:12 PM ---------------------------
From: Giuseppe Paleologo@ENRON COMMUNICATIONS on 08/28/2000 12:11 PM
To: William Smith/Corp/Enron@ENRON
cc:  

Subject: Re: Hello!  

I landed in the research group as a summer associate at the end of June, 
straight from sunny Palo Alto, where I am pursuing a PhD in Management 
Science and Engineering.  Since my area of research is the performance 
evaluation and economic analysis of communication networks, Enron is "the" 
place to be: Enron Broadband Services has the first mover's advantage in this 
field, and nearly every decision requires an understanding of both data 
networks and financial mathematics. Enron has  most of the needed skills to 
succeed, and the right attitude. After two months here, I am more convinced 
than ever that the best is still to come.
I am from Rome, Italy, where I have spent most of my life (my pre-columbian 
period, properly speaking). Italy is the nation known among Americans  for 
having invented the pasta alfredo and for having elected a porn star as a 
member of parliament. The former allegation is indeed false: pasta alfredo is 
quintessential american. About the latter, one of my dubious achievement is 
to have interviewed the aforementioned member of parliament about her 
political agenda, receiving predictably fuzzy answers.
As many members of the research groups, my background is in Physics. I fell 
in love with Operation Research and Management Science while working for a 
large IT consulting firm in Italy, and wanted to learn more. I have been a 
student at Stanford University since then. Studying there has been a very 
enjoyable experience, and I am sorry I will have to leave it sometime soon.
Management Science is not the only hobby in my life. I am an avid 
motorcyclist, and am a lifelong student of argentine tango. I also like 
reading (a skill I learned in 1st grade and has never failed me), in 
particular 20th century english, italian and french poetry.








	William Smith@ENRON
	08/11/00 02:10 PM
		 
		 To: Giuseppe Paleologo/Enron Communications@Enron Communications
		 cc: 
		 Subject: Hello!

Giuseppe,

I'm Sam Smith and among other things I'm the department newsletter editor.  
Are you going to be leaving after today or will you be around next week?  If 
you'll be around, I'd love for you to write a short bio piece for the 
newsletter.  Have a look at some recent issues for examples.  If you'll be 
here Monday morning, I can get a quick photo.

If not, then I'm sorry I missed you!

Sam



