Message-ID: <14111135.1075858485397.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Fri, 27 Apr 2001 04:10:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: lenos.trigeorgis@enron.com
To: lenos@ucy.ac.cy
Subject: Real options conference programs (UCLA, July 11-14)
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Lenos Trigeorgis 
X-To: lenos <lenos@ucy.ac.cy>
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Kaminski-V
X-FileName: vkamins.pst

Please find attached the programs for the two back-two-back conferences on real options at UCLA (you may also download them from www.realoptions.org and www.rogroup.com ). The two conferences are separate but complementary events. The first conference, co-sponsored with Accenture and Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, on July 11-12, is a professional conference on Real Options Valuation in the Connected Economy: High Tech, Pharma, Energy, Corporate Valuation & Strategic/Portfolio Management. For information and online registration see www.rogroup.com .
The second is the 5th Annual International Conference on Real Options: Theory Meets Practice (the annual industry event where academics and practitioners get together to share the latest developments on theory and applications), co-organized with The Anderson School at UCLA on July 13-14. For information and online registration see www.realoptions.org 
Between the two complementary events, we are pleased to present an extensive array of practitioner and cutting-edge academic presentations, sharing of experiences by corporate executives, and panel discussions by experts from leading organizations and universities. Our keynote speaker this year will be Eduardo S. Schwartz of UCLA. 
Interested participants must register for the conference online www.realoptions. org ) and indicate hotel preferences by May 31 or ASAP.
We look forward to seeing you at this exciting event, and would appreciate if you share this with interested colleagues.
Lenos Trigeorgis

 - 5thmanagerialconferenceJuly2001.doc 
 - 5thacademicconferenceJuly2001.doc 