Message-ID: <1103826.1075856599705.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Wed, 15 Nov 2000 11:57:00 -0800 (PST)
From: mina.dioun@lcra.org
To: jballen@enron.com, mcarson@enron.com, rbradle@enron.com, vkamins@enron.com
Subject: Speech by Chairman Pat Wood of PUCT - CTAEE Meeting- Nov. 29, 2000
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: "Mina Dioun" <Mina.Dioun@lcra.org>
X-To: <jballen@enron.com>, <mcarson@enron.com>, <rbradle@enron.com>, <vkamins@enron.com>
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Kaminski-V
X-FileName: vkamins.nsf

Dear Colleague:

We are honored to have Chairman Pat Wood of the Public Utility Commission of 
Texas as the distinguish speaker for the meeting of the Central Texas Chapter 
of the United States Association for Energy Economics.  Chairman Wood is the 
main architect of electric industry restructuring in Texas and this meeting 
offers a unique opportunity to hear his speech entitled:

"Texas' Future Competitive Electric Industry"

Please mark your calendars and join us on Wednesday, November 29 at 5:00 PM 
at the Lower Colorado River Authority's Board Room, Located at 3700 Lake 
Austin Blvd (Hancock Building), Austin, Texas.  The meeting will open with 
refreshments and Chairman Wood's presentation will begin at 5:30 PM.  The 
meeting is open to the public and is free. We extend a special invitation to 
all members of the USAEE that reside in the central Texas area. Please plan 
to meet David DeAngelo, President of USAEE, who we are fortunate to have as 
our special guest. David will be happy to answer any questions you have about 
the IAEE and USAEE.

About the CTAEE

The Central Texas Association for Energy Economics (CTAEE) focuses on current 
energy events and research at the state, national, and international level.  
It is an excellent forum to meet, network, and exchange ideas in the regional 
energy community.  Local programs will be held six to eight times a year.

The CTAEE is a local chapter of an international association known as the 
International Association for Energy Economics (IAEE).  CTAEE is a non-profit 
organization and is a totally non-partisan forum for stimulating discussion 
and dialogue on major energy policy and analysis issues.  To provide 
exceptional meeting topics and dialogue we need your local membership.  Your 
participation in CTAEE can bring new ideas to help promote effective energy 
policy.

About the IAEE and USAEE

The International Association for Energy Economics (IAEE), founded in 1977, 
provides a forum for the exchange of ideas, experience and issues among 
professionals interested in energy economics. Its scope is worldwide, as are 
its members, who come from diverse backgrounds -- corporate, academic, 
scientific, and government. The United States Association for Energy 
Economics (USAEE) is an affiliate of the International Association for Energy 
Economics.  As a member of IAEE you will gain a broader understanding of 
energy economics, policymaking and theory. Members are kept well informed by 
IAEE and USAEE publications and conferences on events within the energy 
industry and energy challenges that lie ahead. Furthermore, membership 
provides you with the opportunity to network within the largest association 
of energy professionals in the world.

Mina M. Dioun, Ph.D.                 Neil 
McAndrews                            Karl J. Nalepa
CTAEE President                        CTAEE Vice President                   
CTAEE Treasurer
(512) 473-3333 x-2549                 (512) 
415-3227                            (512) 463-8574
mdioun@lcra.org  nmcandrew@austin.rr.com                 
karl.nalepa@rrc.state.tx.us



 - ctaee-Meeting.doc