Message-ID: <19390154.1075857043654.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Tue, 29 Feb 2000 07:05:00 -0800 (PST)
From: ravi.thuraisingham@enron.com
To: martin.lin@enron.com
Subject: Re: Martin Lin support for Jim
Cc: stinson.gibner@enron.com, jim.irvine@enron.com, vince.kaminski@enron.com
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
Bcc: stinson.gibner@enron.com, jim.irvine@enron.com, vince.kaminski@enron.com
X-From: Ravi Thuraisingham
X-To: Martin Lin
X-cc: Stinson Gibner, Jim Irvine, Vince Kaminski
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Kaminski-V
X-FileName: vkamins.nsf

Hi Stinson, I have sent an e-mail to Martin to give him heads up on what to 
expect in terms of transition.  I have talked to Jim about this and we are in 
agreement on the following schedule for Martin.

First two week  Martin will just read up stuff and get up to speed. I have 
suggested some reading material. If you guys can do the same.

I'll set up a meeting for all of us with Jim.  Jim and I will draft a game 
plan document to outline major areas of work that we need to support from the 
traffic engineering perpective (this will involve our OR guys, Stinson and 
I).  Martin will be on Jim's team supporting general Network Planning 
(through this work I am doing right now for project Hamachi, I will support 
Jim on other similar initiatives) projects.  Martin will work with Jim and me 
on this.  Stinson, I will e-mail a draft of our game plan once I have 
something on paper.  After that we can distribute the document to Tom 
Gros/Jean Mrha (trading) and Ted Seitz for information.

Ravi.







	Stinson Gibner@ECT
	02/29/00 01:57 PM
		
		 To: Ravi Thuraisingham/Enron Communications@ENRON COMMUNICATIONS@ENRON
		 cc: 
		 Subject: Martin Lin support for Jim
Ravi:

Since you are spending time with Jim Irvine, can you find out what Martin Lin 
needs to do to start coming up to speed in supporting Jim?   Martin is ready 
to transition, but needs to find out what he will be working on.   Will Jim 
be in Houston anytime soon or should Martin go to Portland to talk to him, 
etc...

--Stinson

