Message-ID: <16881698.1075857043820.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Wed, 23 Feb 2000 08:29:00 -0800 (PST)
From: ravi.thuraisingham@enron.com
To: martin.lin@enron.com
Subject: Re: rotation information
Cc: vince.kaminski@enron.com, stinson.gibner@enron.com, jim.irvine@enron.com, 
	john_griebling@palm.net
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
Bcc: vince.kaminski@enron.com, stinson.gibner@enron.com, jim.irvine@enron.com, 
	john_griebling@palm.net
X-From: Ravi Thuraisingham
X-To: Martin.Lin@enron.com
X-cc: Vince Kaminski, Stinson Gibner, Jim Irvine, John_Griebling@palm.net
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Kaminski-V
X-FileName: vkamins.nsf

Martin, I am working right here with Jim Irvine and discussed your rotation.  
You will report to me, with 'client' reporting role to Jim where you will do 
most of the work.  You will remain in Houston working on the 19th floor for 
now until we find you a place on either 44th or 45th. Jim Irvine will be 
asking John Griebling for Network Planning office space in Houston.  You will 
get an office in that area.  Jim will work from Portland but will hold an 
office in Houston.  Until the office space on EBS floors happens, you need to 
remain on the 19th.  We will allocate you to Jim's & John Griebling's group 
full time. You will have EBS computers, cell phone, etc. to be fully 
connected on the EBS side.  You will work initially on the trffic engineering 
side to support day-to-day fire-fighting like analysis.  I will supervise you 
with repect to guidance on what to do etc... Jim will direct what will get 
done.  Both Jim and I will support  Traffic Engineering work but Jim is 
ultimately responsible for deliverables.

Our technical operational research specialists (Samer, Chonawee, and two 
others from Stanford & MIT) will focus on next generation algorithms for EBS. 
Such an algorithm is currently being specified. This will depend on how the 
trading market will develop. We know that existing off-shelf codes won't be 
sufficient.  The development period for these algorithms will anywhere from 3 
months to 9 months depending on the complexity. This is in-line with when EBS 
anticipates trade volumes to really pickup.  I hope this helps.

Regards,

Ravi.



	Martin.Lin@enron.com
	02/23/00 02:06 PM
		 
		 To: Ravi Thuraisingham/Enron Communications@Enron Communications
		 cc: 
		 Subject: rotation information




Ravi,

The Associate program has a procedure that requires information on new
rotations.  I just wanted to clarify some details of my rotation to EBS, esp
given the retained ties to Research.  Will Jim Irvine be my supervisor with 
EBS
being the company billed for my time?  That is, will my connection to Research
be informal and understood, rather than having some actual reporting function?
This is with respect to the A/A pool.

Thanks,
Martin


