Message-ID: <26759802.1075856603381.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Wed, 21 Jun 2000 08:43:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: ravi.thuraisingham@enron.com
To: dorn.hetzel@enron.com
Subject: Re: IMPORTANT - PRC MTG
Cc: john.griebling@enron.com, vince.kaminski@enron.com, 
	vasant.shanbhogue@enron.com, stinson.gibner@enron.com, 
	kayla.crenshaw@enron.com, shirley.crenshaw@enron.com
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
Bcc: john.griebling@enron.com, vince.kaminski@enron.com, 
	vasant.shanbhogue@enron.com, stinson.gibner@enron.com, 
	kayla.crenshaw@enron.com, shirley.crenshaw@enron.com
X-From: Ravi Thuraisingham
X-To: Dorn Hetzel
X-cc: John Griebling, Vince Kaminski, Vasant Shanbhogue, Stinson Gibner, Kayla Crenshaw, Shirley Crenshaw
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Kaminski-V
X-FileName: vkamins.nsf

Hi Dorn & John, as you discovered recently, I am still 'officially' in Vince 
Kaminski's group (my original Enron Corp. group). This holds true for Shalesh 
Ganjoo as well.  I did not explicitly pick Dorn or John as reviewers thinking 
that they will show up automatically as a result of my assumed reporting 
structure.  

So, Vince has agreed to 'host' the review in his group and proceed to 
transfer me over to EBS officially when this quarter is overs (Apprently that 
was scheduled to be automatic).  In the mean time, Vasant, Stinson or Vince 
would like to get a e-mail from either Dorn or John regarding my performance 
from their perspective for consideration as soon as possible.

I had plan on being on vacation starting tomorrow and have made arrangement 
with my family already.  Since I am not reviewing Shalesh directly (since he 
is in Research under Stionson), I am assuming I don't have to attend the 
review meetin tommorrow. I'll be on the road starting in the morning.  If I 
change this, I am told at home, that I will be in the market for another 
family!  I can phone in if that is okay. 

Kayla, could you page me with the details?

Regards,


Ravi.