Message-ID: <7187244.1075857042929.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Mon, 13 Mar 2000 06:27:00 -0800 (PST)
From: ravi.thuraisingham@enron.com
To: stinson.gibner@enron.com, vince.kaminski@enron.com
Subject: Stewart Seeligson joins EBS
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Ravi Thuraisingham
X-To: Stinson Gibner, Vince Kaminski
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Kaminski-V
X-FileName: vkamins.nsf

Hi Stinson & Vince this is the person that Kevin Howard told me about--Kevin 
did the finacing portion of the deals mentioned blow and Stewart was the 
commercial counterpart.  He will be heading up Hamachi towards its closure 
this week.  

Ravi.


----- Forwarded by Ravi Thuraisingham/Enron Communications on 03/13/00 02:20 
PM -----

	EBS Office of the Chairman
	Sent by: Dolph Selten
	03/13/00 01:47 PM
		 
		 To: EC Employees -- All@Enron Communications
		 cc: 
		 Subject: Stewart Seeligson joins EBS


We are pleased to announce that Stewart Seeligson has joined EBS relocating 
after more than 4 years from Enron Europe in London.  Stewart started with 
Enron nearly six years ago as an associate in ECT in Houston.  In Europe, 
Stewart was successful in playing a key role in Sutton Bridge, originating a 
number of highly structured transactions including the Eastern deals and more 
recently co-led Enron's commercial activities in Spain especially the 
development of a 1200 MW CCGT which is expected to begin construction later 
this year.

Stewart will assist in developing, managing and leading several of our more 
complicated mission critical commercial transactions.  In particular, Stewart 
will focus on those transactions which require multiple functions across EBS, 
a role Stewart excelled in at Enron Europe.  Stewart will report directly to 
Ken Rice as a Vice President, but will work directly with each of the 
commercial business unit leaders on a project specific basis.

Please welcome Stewart to the EBS team.

