Message-ID: <25317843.1075854183874.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Mon, 3 Apr 2000 09:51:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: dave.nommensen@enron.com
To: edward.terry@enron.com, katherine.kelly@enron.com, tricia.bowen@enron.com, 
	chris.germany@enron.com, maria.garza@enron.com, 
	george.smith@enron.com, randall.gay@enron.com, 
	daren.farmer@enron.com, carlos.rodriguez@enron.com, 
	pat.clynes@enron.com, kimberly.olinger@enron.com
Subject: Procedure for adding new Capacity tickets for multi-desk Service
 utilization - revised
Cc: tommy.yanowski@enron.com, scott.mills@enron.com, thomas.engel@enron.com, 
	robert.superty@enron.com, inja.chun@enron.com
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
Bcc: tommy.yanowski@enron.com, scott.mills@enron.com, thomas.engel@enron.com, 
	robert.superty@enron.com, inja.chun@enron.com
X-From: Dave Nommensen
X-To: Edward Terry, Katherine L Kelly, Tricia Bowen, Chris Germany, Maria Garza, George Smith, Randall L Gay, Daren J Farmer, Carlos J Rodriguez, Pat Clynes, Kimberly S Olinger
X-cc: Tommy J Yanowski, Scott Mills, Thomas Engel, Robert Superty, Inja Chun
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Farmer-D
X-FileName: dfarmer.nsf

Revision in bold.  Pass on to any who may need this.

In order to provide the ability to track transport expense by Desk, Sitara 
was modified to allow multiple Transport Capacity tickets for the same 
Service Contract provided that they are for different desks and only one is 
tagged as "Primary".  Here is the procedure for setting up new Capacity 
tickets to reflect the "other" desks:

a.  You will probably first notice this via a warning/error message in Path 
Manager when building a new path.  The message will read something like   
"Source/Destination 123456 for desk IMCT does not match Service contract 3434 
and will be removed."
b.  Make note of the deal number in the Service List of the Service contract 
that you were using in the new path.
c.  Open that Transport Capacity deal in Sitara.  Then hit Copy.
d.  On the new deal:
 Change the Buyer from the old desk to the new desk that matches the Supply 
or Market deal that you are pathing with.  If it a deal for which we are 
  agent, then don't change the Buyer but instead change the Agent to the new 
desk.  The "primary" deal will carry the actual Agent.  The Agent
  contract will get cleared.  Re-select the Agent Contract.
 Changing the Buyer causes the Contract field to get blanked out.  Re-select 
the Pipeline contract.
 Just above the various exchange line items is a Primary Deal check box.  
Un-check it.
 On each exchange line item, change the MDQ to zero and for any Negotiated 
rates, uncheck them as well.  The "primary" deal will carry the MDQ and
  any negotiated Demand, Commodity or fuel.
 Hit Release.
e.  You may need to re-retrieve Path Manager.  You should see the Deal number 
in the Service list now read "Multiple".  Right-click/Service Deals will list 
the  specific deals.
f.  Re-build the path as you originally desired.  The warning/error message 
should not appear again.

This could occur for any combination of Desk and Service Contract.
Please file this in your "Call Dave If I Can't Find This" folder.

Thanks, d.n.