Message-ID: <23394291.1075849851952.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Mon, 19 Mar 2001 10:45:00 -0800 (PST)
From: enron.announcements@enron.com
To: egm.employees@enron.com
Subject: EGM Operations & Accounting Organizational Announcement
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Enron Announcements
X-To: EGM Employees
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: BECK-S
X-FileName: sbeck.nsf

Due to a system error this original email could not open the powerpoint 
presentation. Please launch the attachment. 


Enron Global Markets has experienced tremendous growth since inception and 
this growth rate will continue to increase as new businesses and markets are 
developed.  In order to ensure EGM Operations & Accounting is positioned to 
provide the highest level of support and value to each EGM business unit, I 
am pleased to announce the following organizational changes effective 
immediately.

Physical Commodity Operations
These groups, which include Crude & Products, Coal, LNG, Freight and Weather, 
are being reorganized along functional lines to provide better focus and 
promote efficiencies across these operational activities.  Weather is being 
included in this group to maintain the consistency of current Operations 
leadership in this area.

      Business Risk Controls
Todd Hall will assume the role as Business Risk Controller on a worldwide 
basis for the physical businesses.  This group will have responsibility for 
all Risk Management activities and serve as the daily commercial interface 
for all operational issues that affect the physical businesses.

North America Operations
Michelle Bruce will assume responsibility for the following activities that 
support the physical businesses for North America:  Confirmations, 
Coordination, Settlements and Trade Accounting.  Michelle and her team will 
also play a key role in coordinating operational activities as they relate to 
potential acquisitions and new business opportunities within North America.

Europe/Asia Operations
Cindy Horn will continue in her role managing the following activities for 
the physical businesses in Europe and Asia:  Confirmations, Coordination, 
Settlements and Trade Accounting.  Cindy and her team will also have the 
critical responsibility of ensuring proper controls and processes are 
maintained for all new and existing markets throughout the region.  Tiong 
Hock Lim and his team in Singapore will report to Cindy.

Financial Commodity Operations
Sheila Glover will expand her current role and manage all business risk and 
operational activities for Financial Trading and Global Risk Management.  As 
the Global Risk Management business grows, Sheila will develop the 
operational processes and infrastructure necessary to support it.

Todd, Michelle, Cindy and Sheila will also work together as a Controller team 
to ensure processes and controls are consistent across EGM and that 
efficiencies are broadly applied.

Structuring/Transaction Analysis
Scott Earnest will assume responsibility for all commodity structuring and 
transaction analysis activities across EGM.  His duties will include pricing 
and valuation of new transactions and businesses, evaluation of existing 
transactions to identify restructuring opportunities and risk controls 
monitoring and reporting.  

Technology
Kevin Sweeney will continue in his role as Technology Controller.  Kevin and 
his team will be completing the implementation of Project Thunderball for 
Crude & Products and Coal and will also serve as the Business Leads for 
system enhancements and new technology opportunities that are identified.

Financial Operations & Accounting
Tom Myers will continue in his role of managing EGM Financial Operations & 
Accounting.  Tom and his group are responsible for EGM management reporting, 
Plan & Current Estimate preparation, the financial close process and G/L 
controls.

Please see the attached organizational chart for a more detailed look at the 
changes discussed above.

 

   Please join me in congratulating everyone on their new assignments.


