Message-ID: <28027837.1075856577002.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Thu, 21 Dec 2000 07:51:00 -0800 (PST)
From: clayton.vernon@enron.com
To: vince.kaminski@enron.com
Subject: f/up
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Clayton Vernon
X-To: Vince J Kaminski
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Kaminski-V
X-FileName: vkamins.nsf

Vince-

I got your message (I was up on the roof of the building helping to fix the 
weather satellite dish- what a gorgeous view of Houston!).

I appreciate your words. Everything remains fine, Vince. You are my "father" 
here at Enron, and I admire and respect you greatly. I think I know the kind 
of person you are, in terms of your integrity, and I admire the high 
standards you set for all of us in your extended "Group."

I want to let you know I am not the only one in the group who doesn't 
appreciate the way Maureen disrespects you. You remain the key external 
factor in their success- it is not simply their own abilities that matter to 
their futures but your own- Vince's- success with upper management that 
matters.

We respect you, and we don't like it when you are disrespected. Maureen 
didn't disrespect me today, Vince, she disrespected you.

It's time I told you something. Last April, Maureen, highly intoxicated 
following a work-related function at Ninfa's, made an unsolicited predatory 
sexual advance on me at my desk on the 19th floor. I was shocked and 
disgusted, but I didn't say one word about this, Vince, because I played it 
out and didn't want to put you into the position of having a raving Maureen 
in your midst as you perhaps had to fire her and then endure a litany of 
gender-bias crap lawsuits.

I "took one for the team," Vince. I can'rt say I would do it again- Maureen 
is brazen to berate me after what she did, in public no less.

I appreciate your bringing me into Enron. I've found a respectful and, 
indeed, a loving work environment. I remain willing to do whatever I can to 
help the Group.

Clayton
