Message-ID: <8149458.1075856579049.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Thu, 26 Oct 2000 10:06:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: steven.leppard@enron.com
To: melanie.doyle@enron.com
Subject: Further actions on Anjam's departure
Cc: vince.kaminski@enron.com, dale.surbey@enron.com, richard.lewis@enron.com
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
Bcc: vince.kaminski@enron.com, dale.surbey@enron.com, richard.lewis@enron.com
X-From: Steven Leppard
X-To: Melanie Doyle
X-cc: Vince J Kaminski, Dale Surbey, Richard Lewis
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Kaminski-V
X-FileName: vkamins.nsf

Hi Mel

Further to our earlier discussions here's the full list of actions we'd like 
to put into place regarding Anjam's departure:

HR-type stuff:
1. Get Anjam off the trading floor as soon as possible.  There is no need for 
him to remain on the floor.  This will need to be delayed until IT number 1 
is completed (cataloguing his work).
2. Determine where Anjam is heading.  We need to know who is going to know 
our positions and curves next.
3. Remove his security pass, and insist that he is always accompanied when in 
the building.  Sharad is to sit with him while he catalogues his work.

IT-type stuff:
1. Ask him to catalogue the contents of his h: drive, since the rest of the 
group will need to support his work in the future.  This should take no more 
than a day or two.
2. Get IT to obtain their backups of Anjam's h: drive for weekly intervals 
over the last two months.  This will allow us to determine what he has 
deleted.
3. Get IT to provide a snapshot of Anjam's Notes folders, and provide records 
of mail sent out to the internet over the last couple of months.  I'm worried 
about code/data he may have zipped up and mailed out.
4. Ask IT to use a utility program to determine what has been deleted from 
Anjam's c: drives.  There may be useful info here too.
5. Revoke all internet access, whether via Explorer or Notes mail.
6. Get a record of all files he has printed over the last couple of months.

Vince has OK'd this lot, so let's do it ASAP.

Many thanks,
Steve