Message-ID: <13009625.1075840821951.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Fri, 2 Mar 2001 14:09:00 -0800 (PST)
From: janet.dietrich@enron.com
To: louise.kitchen@enron.com
Subject: The List
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Janet R Dietrich <Janet R Dietrich/HOU/EES@EES>
X-To: Louise Kitchen <Louise Kitchen/HOU/ECT@ECT>
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: KITCHEN-L
X-FileName: louise kitchen 2-7-02.pst

Hey Louise, following are a few folks I would suggest making an extra effort to talk to in the very near future, although with the announcement of Duran I think he has already begun meeting with these guys. 

Ozzie Pagan-Ozzie Pagan-Ozzie Pagan
Bernie Aucoin-Head of Power Structuring
Janelle Scheur- NE mid-market
Michael Brown-NE orig.
Heather Kroll- SE orig.
Bruce Sukaly-TX orig.
Charlie Vetters/Mike Miller- Principal Investing

These gas guys could use a little attention:

Ed McMichael-Head of Gas Structuring
Frank Vickers-East gas orig.
Laura Luce-Chicago/Midwest gas

I talked with Delainey last night and asked him to talk with Duran which he did. Delainey also talked with Michael Brown and Janelle Scheur (I wasn't here). I talked with Ozzie this morning and Delainey is talking with him now. We've asked every one of these guys to stay calm and give this a chance to work. I do think they all have confidence in Duran so that's good. 

Personally, I think the Baughman announcement was a mistake. Baughman is a superb mid-market leader, but the NE isn't in need of that. Janelle can handle that role with no issues whatsoever. The NE needs a high-powered structured originator that will continue to build and really lead that business. The signal that was just sent with the Baughman announcement is that the NE will be a mid-market shop only (confirming the concerns already up there),  with no realistic capability of executing on the current business plan. 

Please let me know if there's anything more I can do. It really took a lot of work to get East Power finally set up like it needs to be, and I really hate to see it falling apart like this.  And remember, we have put out no "bids" for ANY individual within ENA or wholesale. 

Call if you need anything...