Message-ID: <27323967.1075856630910.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Fri, 22 Dec 2000 09:24:00 -0800 (PST)
From: vince.kaminski@enron.com
To: bambos@stanford.edu
Subject: Re: Stanford Project
Cc: vince.kaminski@enron.com, stinson.gibner@enron.com
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
Bcc: vince.kaminski@enron.com, stinson.gibner@enron.com
X-From: Vince J Kaminski
X-To: Nick Bambos <bambos@stanford.edu> @ ENRON
X-cc: Vince J Kaminski, Stinson Gibner
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Kaminski-V
X-FileName: vkamins.nsf

Nick,

Thanks for your message. My family is in Houston for the Christmas holidays
and  this means I am not coming any time soon to Stanford.
I shall probably visit the campus for the Parents Weekend. Let's
plan to meet for dinner then.

I am very glad that you have recruited the 2nd PhD student for the research  
project.
We are discussing internally what would be the best topic(s) for the project
and we should be ready to talk to you in the nearest future about it.
It makes a lot of sense for you to visit Enron to finalize the selection
of the research topics.

We shall be glad to take both Eric and Giuseppe as summer interns.
Everybody  was immensely impressed with Giuseppe and we shall 
welcome him with open arms.

I shall get in touch with you in the beginning of January to finalize the 
arrangements for your trip and our meeting at Stanford.

Vince






Nick Bambos <bambos@stanford.edu> on 12/20/2000 12:14:40 PM
To: Vince.J.Kaminski@enron.com
cc: Stinson.Gibner@enron.com 
Subject: Stanford Project


Hello Vince and Stinson,

First of all,

BEST WISHES FOR HAPPY HOLIDAYS!!!!

If you are in the Stanford area during the holidays, let's get together
some time to have dinner.

I have formally established the project - thanks again for funding
it - and I have also recruited the second PhD student. His name is
Eric Cope, and he is a top-notch student, very mature, and entrepreneurial!

We have started working on some interesting problems in this area. I would
hope that Eric could spend the coming summer at Enron to get immersed into
the "problem/opportunity generation environment." That really helps the 
student
to develop a realistic vision about their research.

Perhaps, our whole team could visit Enron again some time in the next quarter,
say in March or so, to discuss the research issues we are pursuing. And of 
course
you could visit us before that too.


With my WARMEST WISHES,

Nick

