Message-ID: <7866400.1075856631307.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Tue, 29 Aug 2000 09:30:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: bambos@stanford.edu
To: stinson.gibner@enron.com, vince.j.kaminski@enron.com
Subject: Re: Enron/Stanford Program
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Nick Bambos <bambos@stanford.edu>
X-To: Stinson.Gibner@enron.com, Vince.J.Kaminski@enron.com
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Kaminski-V
X-FileName: vkamins.nsf

Hi Vince, Stinson

Thank you for hosting my visit to Enron and arranging for me to meet
with you and other decision-makers at Enron. The meetings been very
productive on my side, as I try to formulate the project more
clearly.

We are entering the period that I have to set up the Research Assistantships 
(RA)
for next year for Giuseppe and the other student I have committed to support
on this project. School starts in late September, but already I have to
start putting together the papers for the RAs in the Fall, as per departmental
requirement.

Would it be possible to put the project in place soon, so that I can
do the RAship papers for the students? I expect I will start having
pressure from the department to do the paperwork for these RAships early
September, and I have to have them in place by the third week of September,
just before school starts.

I am attaching below the same DRAFT of a letter I had sent you in a previous
e-mail, which would be required to set up the project at Stanford. Please,
let me know how you would like to proceed.

Again, thanks for your hospitality and I look forward to productive 
collaboration
during the coming year and beyond.

Best Regards,

Nick


PS: Vince, I look forward to seeing you during your visit to the Bay Area
in October.




-----------------------------------------------------------------------
DRAFT of letter to be sent from Enron to Stanford.


Prof. Nicholas Bambos
420 Terman Engineering Center
Management Science & Eng. Dept. and
Electrical Engineering Department
Stanford University
Stanford, CA 94305


Dear Nick,

We are happy to provide gift funds of $100,000 per year, over
three years, to support a program in your research group, related
to Bandwidth Markets/Trading and Networking Technologies.

Enron would like to support research activities in the above
mentioned area, including Pd.D. student work, research seminars etc.
There may also be opportunities to have the supported Ph.D. students
do summer internships at Enron, related to their research interests.

Please find enclosed a check of $100,000 payable to Stanford University
for supporting this research effort in your group during the first year.


Best Regards,


Name and Title