Message-ID: <20696817.1075856631416.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Thu, 6 Jul 2000 08:26:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: bambos@stanford.edu
To: vince.j.kaminski@enron.com, stinson.gibner@enron.com
Subject: Enron/Stanford Program
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Nick Bambos <bambos@stanford.edu>
X-To: Vince.J.Kaminski@enron.com, Stinson.Gibner@enron.com
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Kaminski-V
X-FileName: vkamins.nsf

Hello Vince, Stinson,

Thank you very much for hosting my visit at Enron. I had a
very pleasant time there, and I found the meetings very
informative.

As discussed during my visit at Enron, I am sending you below
a DRAFT of the letter that would be needed to get the program
in place and rolling, and start the students working on it.
It took a while to find out what the appropriate process was
and how the letter should be structured. Sorry for the delay.

If I may, I'd like to visit Enron again, sometime in August,
to define the research agenda more precisely and prioritize
the problems to look at. I'm in frequent contact with Giuseppe,
who is impressed by the environment there. We are trying to formulate
the research issues and problems to study, that would be of interest
to Enron.  The plan is this:

1) By August, Giuseppe will have been there for almost 2 months
and will probably have a relatively good understanding of the Enron problem
space.

2) I will work together with Giuseppe till August to formulate a set of
good problems of:
a) high practical importance
b) high innovation potential
c) serious scope.

3) I could  visit in August (say mid-August or so) to:
a) discuss these problems with you and get your feedback
b) prioritize the problems and evaluate their impact
c) make sure we're on the same page regarding research strategy
and execution path.

I hope we can fully set up the program at Stanford before then, so
that I can bring on board one more Ph.D. student to start his
doctoral work in this area.

I'm all excited about our collaboration. I am even thinking of
starting a research seminar at Stanford, specifically on these
research issues!

Talk to you soon.
Best Regards,

Nick


-----------------------------------------------------------------------
DRAFT of letter to be sent from Enron to Stanford.


Prof. Nicholas Bambos
420 Terman Engineering Center
Management Science & Eng. Dept. and
Electrical Engineering Department
Stanford University
Stanford, CA 94305


Dear Nick,

We are happy to provide gift funds of $100,000 per year, over
three years, to support a program in your research group, related
to Bandwidth Markets/Trading and Networking Technologies.

Enron would like to support research activities in the above
mentioned area, including Pd.D. student work, research seminars etc.
There may also be opportunities to have the supported Ph.D. students
do summer internships at Enron, related to their research interests.

Please find enclosed a check of $100,000 payable to Stanford University
for supporting this research effort in your group during the first year.


Best Regards,


Name and Title