Message-ID: <20698484.1075839936156.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Wed, 2 May 2001 00:27:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: amy.fitzpatrick@enron.com
To: portland.desk@enron.com
Subject: Short-Term California Deal Control Opportunity
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Amy FitzPatrick <Amy FitzPatrick/PDX/ECT@ECT>
X-To: Portland West Desk <Portland West Desk@ECT>
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: WILLIAMS-W3
X-FileName: 

There is a position available in Deal Control, reporting to Jeff Richter on the Short-Term California desk.  If you are interested in applying, please contact Amy FitzPatrick by close of business Friday, May 4, 2001.

Following is a summary of the responsibilities associated with this position.

Facilitate the entry of West Power deals, including short-term and long-term desks and the services desk, into the trading systems.
Follow-up with Deal Clearing and Settlements groups in Houston to verify accuracy of trades in the system.  This includes timely follow-up  with the traders for clarification.
Ensure that all trades are entered by a daily deadline.
Calculate and report weighted averages of daily price and volume to Dow Jones.
Prepare and distribute daily reports to ensure all books are balanced and report discrepancies to management.
Track and report daily and monthly error discrepancies to management and deliver reports for possible solutions to rectify errors. 
Calculate weighted averages between brokered trades and trades executed through Enron OnLine and the Intercontinental Exchange.
Report any technical mishaps to appropriate personnel in Houston and track computer problems until demonstrated resolutions.
Test any updated versions of applications requested by programmers and report back any adjustments needed.

Additional attributes one must possess to succeed in this position are persistence and a positive attitude.  Working knowledge of Microsoft Excel is essential, as is a general software aptitude.

If you have any questions regarding this role, please see either Jeff or Amy.