Message-ID: <17245057.1075854304226.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Thu, 11 Jan 2001 03:20:00 -0800 (PST)
From: lee.papayoti@enron.com
To: pat.flavin@enron.com, james.mckay@enron.com
Subject: Texoma - Beaumont HPL maintenance
Cc: steve.schneider@enron.com, chris.sonneborn@enron.com, daren.farmer@enron.com, 
	greg.brazaitis@enron.com
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
Bcc: steve.schneider@enron.com, chris.sonneborn@enron.com, daren.farmer@enron.com, 
	greg.brazaitis@enron.com
X-From: Lee L Papayoti
X-To: Pat Flavin, James McKay
X-cc: Steve HPL Schneider, Chris Sonneborn, Daren J Farmer, Greg Brazaitis
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Farmer-D
X-FileName: dfarmer.nsf

This is in regard to the maintenance that you want to do at the Texoma - 
Beaumont interconnect (replace some valves, I believe).

We had discussed doing this at a time when Mobil Beaumont Refinery would have 
low gas takes.  That window of opportunity will be in early to mid February.

Mobil will take down some of the units at different times during the month.  
Some of these units are endothermic, some are exothermic, so in some cases 
their gas load goes up when they take certain units down.  But based on the 
schedule of ups and downs that I've been given, it looks like their gas load 
will be at a low point between February 1 and February 12, at somewhere 
around 50,000/d.  Last we talked about HPL continuing to deliver 20,000/d 
through the low pressure meter, and delivering the rest through Centana.  Is 
this still the plan??

We met with Mobil last year in July to talk to them about what we need to 
do:  that it would take less than a day, and that during that time, HPL would 
deliver some of our gas to them through the Centana meter.  But that meeting 
was a long time ago, and we might need to meet again - you know how 
conservative

One thing of concern:  in the past two months, we have effected some of our 
MidCon delivery obligation by delivering 30,000/d gas in kind to Mobil 
Beaumont.  So we will not be able to do this during the day that we do our 
maintenance.

Once you gents let me know what you game plan is and confirm how we'll handle 
gas flows while we do our work, I'd like to be the one that initially tells 
Mobil of our plans and set up the initial meeting.  It's going to take a lot 
of coordination because I can guarantee you that Mobil's maintenance schedule 
will change!

Lee
3.5923