Message-ID: <11525885.1075855929852.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Mon, 28 Feb 2000 09:18:00 -0800 (PST)
From: robert.superty@enron.com
To: sally.beck@enron.com
Subject: Unify
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Robert Superty
X-To: Sally Beck
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Beck-S
X-FileName: sbeck.nsf

Sally, FYI - We've had many complaints and I've had many discussions today 
with Dave N. and Inja. They did discover some system board that is going to 
be replaced tonight. Hopefully replacing the board will do it but history 
makes me skeptical that this is the sole cause for the slow performance.

Needless to say we had to get Settlements and Volume Management to stop their 
work and we still didn't see any improvement. I know everyone is just as 
frustrated as Logistics. At our last several meetings to discuss this problem 
I was insistent that unless they have an answer it seems to me, and the rest 
of the staff, that the system just cannot support the real heavy demand that 
first of month noms and the monthly close require. 

I've included an email I received from Kathy Kelly if you want some gory 
detail. To save you the trouble it normally takes 2-3 minutes to create 
nominations on the largest pipes today some have taken as long as 55 
minutes.  

I'll keep you posted - Bob
---------------------- Forwarded by Robert Superty/HOU/ECT on 02/28/2000 
04:52 PM ---------------------------


Robert Superty
02/28/2000 04:47 PM
To: Inja Chun/HOU/ECT@ECT, Dave Nommensen/HOU/ECT@ECT
cc:  
Subject: Unify

FYI - Inja, Dave - Please read Kathy's memo below. 

Don't know what to tell them. We've been down this road at the same time of 
the month over and over again.  

Any suggestions - Bob
---------------------- Forwarded by Robert Superty/HOU/ECT on 02/28/2000 
04:30 PM ---------------------------
   
	
	
	From:  Katherine L Kelly                           02/28/2000 04:26 PM
	

To: Robert Superty/HOU/ECT@ECT
cc: Edward Terry/HOU/ECT@ECT 
Subject: Unify

Bob,

You have probably already caught wind of this since it seems to be the only 
thing anyone is talking about today, but I wanted to bring it to your 
attention that unify is at an all time pathetic slowness today.  Basically, 
this is all I've heard about today from the schedulers.  Clarissa has just 
handed me a screen print that shows that it took 33.23 minutes to create a 
nom on Tennessee.  Robert has informed me that it has taken him 55 minutes to 
create a nom on Columbia Gas.  It took me over 30 minutes to log on today and 
as soon as I ran a report, it kicked me out saying that I didn't have enough 
memory.  

This has always been a problem at the end of the month, but this month has 
reached in all time low.  I've talked to Dave about three or four times today 
and so has Ed.  Ed has been monitoring the system and he seems to think that 
client services has been taking a large part of the CPU time.  We have both 
questioned Dave on this, but he doesn't seem to see anything unusual with the 
amount of users from accounting, although he does agree that a huge amount of 
CPU time is being used.  

I hate to end this on a  negative note, but at this rate, no one will be 
clean by 1:45 tomorrow.  I don't know what the status is as far as people 
looking into ways to make unify faster, but maybe it is time to draw some 
attention to this again.  

By the way, the bridge from sitara to unify has also been crawling today.  
I've already informed Dave of this, but the bridge was totally out of 
commission this past weekend as well.   This effected those people who tried 
to get a jump start on cleaning for the month and working on the first of the 
month noms.  I hate to say it, but once again, how can we expect people to 
get their work done, if we don't give them systems that work.  On a good 
note, I did get feedback from Clarissa that terminal server was working well 
over the weekend.  Unfortunately, she said that unify was terribly slow, but 
no slower than it is when she's here in the office.  


