Message-ID: <2473182.1075855877733.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Tue, 2 May 2000 05:56:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: brenda.herod@enron.com
To: harold.bertram@enron.com, brian.bierbach@enron.com, 
	nick.cocavessis@enron.com, jim.coffey@enron.com, 
	edward.gottlob@enron.com, barbara.gray@enron.com, 
	thomas.martin@enron.com, brian.redmond@enron.com, 
	gregory.sharp@enron.com, steve.schneider@enron.com, 
	jim.schwieger@enron.com, steve.hooser@enron.com
Subject: Energy Operations - Organizational Changes
Cc: sally.beck@enron.com, katherine.benedict@enron.com, laura.harder@enron.com
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
Bcc: sally.beck@enron.com, katherine.benedict@enron.com, laura.harder@enron.com
X-From: Brenda F Herod
X-To: Harold Bertram, Brian Bierbach, Nick Cocavessis, Jim Coffey, Edward D Gottlob, Barbara N Gray, Thomas A Martin, Brian Redmond, Gregory L Sharp, Steve HPL Schneider, Jim Schwieger, Steve Van Hooser
X-cc: Sally Beck, Katherine Benedict, Laura Harder
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Beck-S
X-FileName: sbeck.nsf

As our business continues to grow and change, Energy Operations is challenged 
daily to ensure best practices throughout all services provided.  We recently 
decided to consolidate the Risk Management, Deal Validation and Operational 
Analysis functions into one group, directed under the management of a 
Business Controller.  I am pleased to announce that Steve Venturatos has 
accepted the role of Business Controller for Texas/Upstream Operations, 
reporting to me.  Additionally, Dave Baumbach has agreed to serve as the Lead 
of the group.  Other additions to the group include Jody Crook, a first year 
analyst, and Ami Chokshi.  Ami will continue to serve as the account manager 
for both Entex and TUFCO.  The attached oranizational chart identifies all 
team members.  Additionally, the Denver trading books will be transitioned 
from Will Kelly (who is assuming the Business Controller role for the East 
region) to our group.  We will also be working with Keith McIver and John 
Peyton to establish risk books for the drilling day rate trading anticipated 
to kick off soon.

Mike Eiben has assumed responsiblities previously managed by Steve Venturatos 
which include Global Contracts and Facilities, System Enhancements and 
Regulatory Reporting.  Clem Cernosek will be joining the Logistics team in a 
trouble shooting capacity.  Jennifer Pattison will be joining Volume 
Management, focused on trouble shooting and UA4.  Both Clem and Jennifer have 
been on the Unify - POPS team.

Please join me in sharing this information with pertinent staff members, and 
in wishing each of these employees success in thier new roles.

