Message-ID: <33322922.1075863319680.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Wed, 30 May 2001 14:32:28 -0700 (PDT)
From: amy.fitzpatrick@enron.com
To: desk.portland@enron.com
Subject: Available Job Opportunities - May 30, 2001
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=ANSI_X3.4-1968
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Fitzpatrick, Amy </O=ENRON/OU=NA/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=AFITZPAT>
X-To: Portland West Desk </O=ENRON/OU=NA/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=NOTESADDR/CN=PORTLAND WEST DESK>
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Williams-B
X-FileName: Williams III, Bill (Non-Privileged).pst


Listed below are three positions which have become available in the Portland office.  I have also included information regarding the position, department, hiring manager, and the information session.  
	
Position			Department			Hiring Manager		Information Session 
Sr Administrative Assistant	Technical Services		Jody Blackburn			Thursday, May 31 in Mt Rainier at 11:00 am
Senior Specialist		Gov't and Regulatory Affairs	Paul Kaufman/Alan Comnes	Friday, June 1 in Mt Hood at 11:00 am	
Analyst/Associate		Origination			JonAlan Page			Monday, June 4 in Mt Hood at 11:00 am		

If you would like to be considered for either of these positions, please let Amy FitzPatrick know by close of business on Tuesday, June 5, 2001.


SENIOR ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT - TECHNICAL SERVICES

Essential Functions
?	Perform complex administrative tasks requiring independent judgment and high skill level and considerable knowledge of administration processes.  Work independently or with minimal supervision.  May give work direction to other clerical or administrative personnel.
?	Regularly compose memos, reports and other correspondence from a brief outline, "sketchy" draft or from verbal instructions.  Determine the most appropriate format and best method of presentation.
?	Greet visitors and answer phones.  Handle callers' requests or route callers to appropriate party.  Have good knowledge of supervisors/department/company's business and consequently be able to handle incoming calls in absence of supervisor.
?	Monitor and control filing systems to ensure accuracy and efficient retrieval of data.  Revise file categories as necessary to meet needs of the department.
?	Open and route incoming mail.  Read most correspondence and either respond for supervisor or attach files/data which will assist the supervisor in responding.
?	Regularly make travel/meeting arrangements based on "sketchy" instructions.  Periodically make independent decisions about details such as best travel schedules, mode of transportation, accommodations, audio visual aids, refreshments, etc.
?	Code invoices using defined code categories and a good understanding of items being coded.  Verify accuracy of dollar amounts and resolve discrepancies.
?	Regularly compile data and prepare related reports.  Assist with data analysis.  Recommend appropriate report format.  May create format and design of reports including monthly reports, bank reports, quarterly reports, and annual reports.  Be open to exercising creative freedom.
?	Create and maintain a network of good working relationships with vendors and all support staff and departments (floor clerks, AP department, Human Resources, Payroll, Legal etc.).
?	Order office supplies as requested, or when supply is running low.
?	Create tracking systems for various reasons (project charges, misc. project detail, work order tracking).
?	Must be detail oriented with excellent organizational skills.
?	Ability to work in an environment that can change from slow to fast-paced (and vice-versa)
?	Ability to identify work priorities and function with very little or no supervision.
?	Ability to work effectively with other administrative staff on the floor.
?	Provide data room support in the sale of an ENA asset.

Essential Job Requirements
?	At least 5 years of secretarial/administrative experience, above average communication and interpersonal skills.
?	Strong PC skills, excellent typing, proofreading, spelling and grammatical skills. Proficient in Word, Excel and PowerPoint.
?	Experience in preparing, formatting, and layout of formal presentations and reports essential.
?	Work is highly confidential; therefore the ability to maintain that confidentiality is crucial.
?	This position has the responsibility to provide administrative support to Technical Services.  Technical Services has accountability for evaluating and managing ENA's technical risk.  This position has the responsibility for supporting technical due diligence, development of new projects, sale of projects, purchase, acquisition and management of projects.
?	Follow through and communication on status of requested tasks is required.

Special Job Characteristics
?	Ability to take the initiative and be resourceful.  
?	Must be comfortable approaching people on a daily basis to follow up for information or items needed to complete a task or project.  
?	May include minimal travel.


SENIOR SPECIALIST - GOVERNMENT AND REGULATORY AFFAIRS

Essential Functions

Analyst will be a part of Government Affairs (GA) Western Region Team to support and expand commercial opportunities for ENA's West Power Trading and Origination organizations.

Under the direction and prioritization assistance of supervisor, analyst would perform a variety of tasks in response to requests from commercial and GA clients, including the following:

?	Perform research and analysis of energy market and regulatory information in both wholesale and retail energy markets. Information sources include electric utilities, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, state public utility commissions, Congress, state legislatures, research organizations, and trade associations.  
?	Regularly monitor regulatory proceedings for rulings and events that could affect existing retail or wholesale commercial positions or create new commercial opportunities.
?	Under direction, synthesize and analyze information and prepare results in the form of briefing charts, market intelligence memorandums, and regulatory filings.
?	Assist in responding to request for information and analysis from commercial clients.
?	On occasion, monitor industry and trade events on behalf of Enron and summarize and distribute market intelligence.
?	Maintain on-line resources (spreadsheets, shared directories, intranet sites) that provide commercial clients latest governmental affairs work products and market information.
?	Other duties as required.

Essential Job Requirements 

?	BA or BS in public policy, economics or related degree with experience in a regulated industry. 
?	Strong communication and data analysis skills are required, including proficiency with statistical software, Excel and PowerPoint.  
?	Ability to develop databases and shared information resources (intranet sites) is strongly desired.

ANALYST/ASSOCIATE - TRANSACTION GROUP, WEST POWER ORIGINATION

Candidate will be part of the West Power Origination group, focused on creating and monetizing structured energy transactions in the western U.S., including power plant development, acquisitions and divestitures.  Candidates will become an integral part of the deal teams involved in all aspects of marketing, structuring, negotiation and execution of large transactions.
 
Role and Essential Skills

?	Primary responsibility will be to accurately model economic and technical aspects of transactions.
?	Candidates will interact with many of Enron's functional areas, including Tax, Legal, Accounting, RAC, Finance, Technical Services and Structuring.
?	Extensive opportunities for commercial exposure and customer interaction will be available.
?	Work environment is fast-paced and unstructured.  Successful candidates have initiative, are team-oriented, flexible and highly motivated.  
?	Excellent quantitative skills a must.  Will be required to conduct due diligence and provide economic analysis for transactions.
?	Extensive background in modeling assets, financial structures and commodity positions would be a benefit.
?	Experience with ENA deal approval process would be useful.
?	Knowledge of power generation and power markets would be helpful.


