Message-ID: <19492248.1075854997827.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Tue, 4 Sep 2001 18:33:08 -0700 (PDT)
From: 40enron@enron.com
Subject: Vehicle Accidents - Alert
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=ANSI_X3.4-1968
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Phil Lowry, Managing Director of Operations@ENRON <IMCEANOTES-Phil+20Lowry+2C+20Managing+20Director+20of+20Operations+40ENRON@ENRON.com>
X-To: Enron Transportation Services Operations@ENRON
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Lokay-M
X-FileName: MLOKAY (Non-Privileged).pst

As you know, safety is the top priority for ETS. Therefore, when we see incident levels rising in any area involving our employees, company property, the public, or public property, it receives an immediate focus and plan of action. This is the case with the increasing number of vehicle accidents occurring across the ETS operating system.

Here are the facts

?		To date, there have been 35 Vehicle Accidents experienced during 2001; this number has more than doubled the number reported for the entire year 2000.
	
?		Seventeen of the 35 Vehicle Accidents this year involved employees backing up and could have been prevented.
?	
?		Seven of these 35 Vehicle Accidents involved an employee striking a fixed object, each of which also could have been prevented.
?	
?	This means that 68% of the Vehicle Accidents this year have been preventable. Driver awareness training and continued communications have not had a profound effect on decreasing the number of preventable accidents.
?	
?	Action Plan
?	
?	In an effort to decrease the number of preventable accidents, effective immediately:
?	
?		All vehicle operators are required to use the "backing-in" policy when parking, AND conduct a "Safety Circle Walk" when leaving a parking space. The only exception would be when "backing-in" causes a greater safety concern. Each Operations Team is accountable to see that every team member meets these two requirements.
?	
?		Each employee involved in a Preventable Vehicle Accident will be required to personally review the details of the accident with the Operation's Regional Director and provide an overview of safe driving techniques at the next Team Safety Meeting. 
?	
?		Common based objectives for all ETS personnel are being immediately adjusted to include a "Safe Driving" component. Preventable accidents may impact the team's performance evaluation and could result in disciplinary action being enforced on the team and/or individual employee.

This Action Plan is designed to eliminate the rising number of motor vehicle collisions. It is not put into place to create a burden on anyone, but rather to ensure that all work is performed safely.  

Please join me in getting behind this initiative to raise awareness that the safe operation of every vehicle is required and that each employee is responsible for his or her decisions when behind the wheel.

REMEMBER:  Safety in Every decision, Believed, Practiced, Promoted and Uncompromised.