Message-ID: <32211537.1075854998468.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Mon, 30 Jul 2001 16:00:48 -0700 (PDT)
From: 40enron@enron.com
Subject: United Way 2001 - Team ETS
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Stan Horton, Chairman & CEO@ENRON <IMCEANOTES-Stan+20Horton+2C+20Chairman+20+26+20CEO+40ENRON@ENRON.com>
X-To: Enron Transportation Services - Houston Special@ENRON
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Lokay-M
X-FileName: MLOKAY (Non-Privileged).pst

  
This year's Enron United Way Campaign kicked off last week with Leadership Giving.  The company-wide campaign along with Week of Caring kicks off on August 6.  ETS' Day of Caring is on August 9 at the Harboch Ripley Center in southeast Houston.  Please contact Kimberly Nelson to volunteer for a morning or afternoon shift at ETS' Day of Caring.  
 
To celebrate a successful Campaign and Week of Caring, an employee appreciation lunch will be held on Friday, August 10, at 11:00 am at Antioch Park across the street from the Enron building.  In correlation with this year's United Way campaign theme, "Building Houston's Future," and in the true spirit of Enron, there will be a building competition among the business units at the lunch.  
 
Each business unit will form a team and build something with building blocks at the August 10 appreciation event.  
 
Rod Hayslett, Phil Lowry and I will lead Team ETS.  To form the rest of Team ETS, we thought it would be fun to have a little contest.  
 
Here's the contest:  Correctly answer all of the questions in the link below by Wednesday, August 1, at 5pm, and your name will be entered into a drawing.  NO late entries will be accepted.
 
We'll draw 7 names from the entries received and if your name is drawn, you will be an official member of Team ETS and help build the most incredible structure imaginable with me, Rod and Phil.  We'll announce the lucky winners on Thursday, August 2.  
 
At the August 10 celebration, all of the business unit building block structures will be built and judged based on Enron's attributes - smart, innovative, bold, ambitious, and united.  Ken Lay will host the Applause Meter and the business unit with the greatest amount of applause will win.  We need all of our ETS employees outside cheering on Team ETS.  Free lunch is included in the deal as well.
 
Let's have some fun with this!  With your help, Enron and United Way will be successful at Building Houston's Future.  
 
Good Luck!
 
Stan
 
 
Website link - please call Kimberly Nelson (x33580) with questions
http://gthou-ww03p.ets.enron.com/Survey/united01/default.htm