Message-ID: <28929569.1075854999636.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Wed, 28 Mar 2001 17:40:33 -0800 (PST)
From: 40enron@enron.com
Subject: ETS Salutes
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Stan Horton, Chairman & CEO ETS@ENRON <IMCEANOTES-Stan+20Horton+2C+20Chairman+20+26+20CEO+20ETS+40ENRON@ENRON.com>
X-To: Enron Transportation Services Everyone@ENRON
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Lokay-M
X-FileName: MLOKAY (Non-Privileged).pst

As we continue saluting our ETS employees nominated for the 2000 Chairman's Award, please join me in congratulating:

Frank Sosa
Lewis Stiles
Steve Thomas
Jose Trevino

Frank, an associate administrative analyst in Roswell, NM, treats people he works with as if they were friends or family. You can always count on him to give words of encouragement and treat you with respect. Frank makes it a pleasure to come to work knowing that he will always be there with a wonderful attitude and a smile.

Lewis, an IT non-development specialist in Houston, is a person to go to gain knowledge about any new technology. He is always excited to see and find new ways to implement the latest inventions in a way to help with productivity. Lewis has set up several "brown bag" training sessions to help employees learn about and communicate knowledge about the software used.

Steve, an engineering specialist in Omaha, works hard to ensure a constant approach with all customers. He keeps the team focused on deadlines and commitments. He seeks out ideas of others. Steve drives the whole team to consistent, timely and quality work, while always looking for a better way to accomplish a task.

Jose, senior operations clerk in Pasadena, is respectful to everyone. He explains information in a way everyone can understand. He is always willing to help out, even if it is not part of his job. Jose is one others look up to as an example of a solid Enron employee.

Again, please join me in congratulating Frank, Lewis, Steve and Jose.

Stan