Message-ID: <1053111.1075854999683.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Wed, 21 Mar 2001 19:13:59 -0800 (PST)
From: 40enron@enron.com
Subject: ETS Salutes
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Stan Horton, Chairman & CEO@ENRON <IMCEANOTES-Stan+20Horton+2C+20Chairman+20+26+20CEO+40ENRON@ENRON.com>
X-To: Enron Transportation Services Everyone@ENRON
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Lokay-M
X-FileName: MLOKAY (Non-Privileged).pst

Once again, we continue our salute to the ETS employees nominated for the 2000 Chairman's Award. Please join me in congratulating:

Janet K. Place
Jim Prentice
Gaye Lynn Schaffart
Derike Shelton

Janet, a vice president and general counsel in Omaha, constantly faces numerous projects on a senior management level. She is always cognizant of others' challenges on a business and personal basis and takes it into consideration in working with others. Janet's character shines through her work and how she deals with others.

Jim, President of Enron Clean Fuels, Houston, has been an employee on Enron for 30 years. He is committed to being the best and bringing out the best in all those who come in contact with him. He is highly respected both as an individual and also professionally. Even after all his years at Enron, and so many positions along the way, past employees still contact Jim with ideas, problems to solve, or just to stay in touch. Jim is a leader in excellence.
 
Gaye Lynn, director of business planning and analysis in Omaha, creates a very open environment as a supervisor and team member. She freely solicits new ways of doing things from her employees and her coworkers and is willing to share the success of a team project. By creating an open environment, Gaye Lynn brings out the best in her employees and coworkers by allowing and encouraging team members to take risks and try new ways of doing business.

Derike, a senior tech O&M in Trimont, MN, is a great communicator with an enormous vocabulary which is used to inform, enlighten and instruct all who come in contact with him. He is often the team spokesman because of his ability to not only convey messages in a clear and precise style, but with passion. Derike shows the spirit and drive that makes Northern Border, ETS and Enron extraordinary places to work.

Again, congratulations Janet, Jim, Gaye Lynn and Derike.

Stan