Message-ID: <29852516.1075854999821.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Wed, 7 Mar 2001 20:58:06 -0800 (PST)
From: 40enron@enron.com
Subject: ETS Salutes
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Stan Horton, Chairman & CEO ETS@ENRON <IMCEANOTES-Stan+20Horton+2C+20Chairman+20+26+20CEO+20ETS+40ENRON@ENRON.com>
X-To: Enron Transportation Services Operations@ENRON
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Lokay-M
X-FileName: MLOKAY (Non-Privileged).pst


As we continue our salute to the ETS employees nominated for the 2000 Chairman's Award, please join me in congratulating:

Robert L. "Bob" Johnson
Rich Jolly
Hasan Kedwaii
Greg Lewis
Teb Lokey

Bob, senior facilities planner in Omaha, demonstrates a zeal for excellence in his work and in his desire to meet customers' needs. Bob's efforts towards revenue management goals, expansion projects, and development of new tools are direct contributions to Enron's goals.

Rich, regional director for Transwestern in Albuquerque, doesn't demand respect, but earns it by deeply caring for all those who work under him. Many times he may be required in the field at 7:00am and may have to drive 3-4 hours to get to the location, but he is always there. He believes in open communications and never holds back information unless it is confidential. Rich doesn't point out anyone's faults, but suggests ways to improve, then assures all the resources are there to make the improvement.

Hasan, manager of IT development in Houston, is always honest and sincere in letting customers know what can and cannot be accomplished by his group. He does not promise what cannot be delivered. Hasan listens respectfully to everyone's viewpoints and replies courteously with a full explanation of why he agrees or disagrees with their ideas.

Greg, manager of IT non-development in Houston, is open, honest and sincere with customers and vendors, along with being a good negotiator. Greg listens to his employees and passes information along to keep employees updated on projects.

Teb, director of rates and tariffs in Houston, can always be depended on. When he commits to do something, it will be done. Teb does his part, and keeps others on track to get their part completed within the deadline and often helps others in a bind to get the job done.

Again, please join me in congratulating Bob, Rich, Greg, Hasan and Teb.

Stan