Message-ID: <28469522.1075854999934.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Wed, 28 Feb 2001 19:45:41 -0800 (PST)
From: 40enron@enron.com
Subject: ETS Salutes
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Stan Horton, Chairman & CEO ETS@ENRON <IMCEANOTES-Stan+20Horton+2C+20Chairman+20+26+20CEO+20ETS+40ENRON@ENRON.com>
X-To: Enron Transportation Services Operations@ENRON
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Lokay-M
X-FileName: MLOKAY (Non-Privileged).pst

Once again, we continue our salute to the ETS employees nominated for the 2000 Chairman's Award. Please join me in congratulating:

Julie Cobb
Jackie Griffith
Rod Hayslett
Arnold Hill
Steve January

Julie, a senior tax and audit specialist in Omaha, offers insightful perspectives and helps employees see the bigger picture of reasons behind an occurrence. She speaks openly and strives to provide balanced views on an issue. 

Jackie, a transportation administrator in Omaha, is polite, respectful and professional when dealing with both customers and internal employees. She is often the first contact many customers have when they are getting acquainted with Northern Border. She received her 25 year service award in the year 2000.

Rod, managing director and chief financial officer, Houston, has a great capacity for listening and has an open and relaxed manner creating an atmosphere where people are encouraged to suggest new ideas. He is helpful in exploring new ideas, listening attentively and providing constructive comments. He makes his employees feel like an important member of the team.

Arnold, a division technical specialist in Glasgow, MT, was a key player in establishing a professional rapport with the station site contractors personnel, inspectors, vendor representatives and engineering staffs throughout the course of the Northern Border Chicago Project . Arnold identified many items requiring change at the first station being constructed to facilitate ease of maintenance that were incorporated into the design of subsequent stations.

Steve, senior director of gas control in Houston, treats all employees with respect and fairness. While listening to all thoughts and ideas, Steve enables employees to be the best they can be.

Again, congratulations Julie, Jackie, Rod, Arnold and Steve.

Stan