Message-ID: <24356380.1075854999981.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Wed, 21 Feb 2001 22:12:18 -0800 (PST)
From: 40enron@enron.com
Subject: ETS Salutes
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Stan Horton, Chairman & CEO ETS@ENRON <IMCEANOTES-Stan+20Horton+2C+20Chairman+20+26+20CEO+20ETS+40ENRON@ENRON.com>
X-To: Enron Transportation Services Operations@ENRON
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Lokay-M
X-FileName: MLOKAY (Non-Privileged).pst

Continuing our salute to the ETS employees nominated for the 2000 Chairman's Award, please join me in congratulating:

Morris Brassfield
Rick Brown
Bob Burleson
Gary Choquette

Morris, senior director of supply management in Houston, is responsible for 60-plus employees in a ten state area. During his employment, Morris has been required to close, move and establish field offices throughout the United States. He has also been involved in reorganizing and developing new ETS business units. Morris is an important leader in ETS.

Rick, a construction coordinator in Amarillo, was instrumental in the Kansas A-line abandonment project. He made sure affected landowners and the construction contractor were treated fairly. In one instance, he traveled several hundred miles to have a face-to-face discussion with a group of landowners to ensure that the project would be completed without adverse environmental impact. Rick's effort diffused a potentially large and expensive problem.

Bob, an account director in Houston, explains complex transactions and details about ecosystems with great ease. His prudent, careful and adept professional customer dealings are among the best. Bob is a true asset to Enron's customers and employees.

Gary, an engineering specialist in Omaha, is always looking for a more efficient way of doing work. He has the initiative to drive change in the work process. Often times this requires the software development of new tools. Gary is dedicated in problem solving and working on a consensus for a solution.

Again, congratulations to Morris, Rick, Bob and Gary.

Stan