Message-ID: <10492282.1075855000040.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Thu, 15 Feb 2001 02:32:00 -0800 (PST)
From: stan.horton@enron.com
To: enron.operations@enron.com
Subject: ETS Salutes
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Stan Horton, Chairman & CEO ETS <Stan Horton, Chairman & CEO ETS@Enron>
X-To: Enron Transportation Services Operations <Enron Transportation Services Operations@ENRON>
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Lokay-M
X-FileName: MLOKAY (Non-Privileged).pst

As you know, the Enron Chairman's Award program recognizes employees who make a difference, one day at a time, by living Enron's Vision and Values in everything they do. The program, which is 100 percent employee-driven, enables all of us to nominate those of our fellow employees who we believe exemplify the Enron values of Respect, Integrity, Communication and Excellence. 
This past October, the Employee Selection Committee reviewed all of the nominations (425 of them from across Enron and from around the world), and selected the 11 finalists who comprise the Chairman's Roundtable. The winner of the Chairman's Award, EES employee Mark Harada, then was selected from this group and announced at the Enron Management Conference in November 2000.
During the next couple of months, ETS is going to honor its 35 nominees, including our two finalists for the award, by sharing the details of their nominations with each of you. Our employees, like the nominees from the other Enron companies, are everyday heroes who apply Enron's values to their work, their relationships and their communities. 
This week, I salute the two Chairman's Award finalists from ETS:
Amelia Alder
Craig Buehler
Amelia, an executive secretary in Houston, has taken excellence to new heights. In 1996, Amelia led an 11 member cycling team for the Multiple Sclerosis Society collecting $5,000 in pledges. Today, she has led this team to be the nationally recognized event leader with over 350 riders and a top fund-raiser with an amazing $500,000 in pledges! Thanks to Amelia's involvement, 1 out of every 6 dollars raised for MS is connected to Enron's name. Amelia's ability to communicate through cooperation and persuasion has resulted in unprecedented recognition for Enron. 
Craig, a senior analyst in Houston, has been identified as a "trendsetter" regarding communication. Today, we take for granted the technology our videoconference rooms provide us. But in the "early" days of Enron, in an effort to bridge the gap between Omaha and Houston, he would videotape individuals within groups and forward the film to the other location. He was the human link that spanned two cities and helped two cultures become one. As a tribute to his efforts, a large number of bonds exist today as a result of his efforts to promote a sense of esprit de corps and friendship. Craig was also responsible for creating Enron Kids, now a favorite employee volunteer activity during the holidays that gives students a complete outfit of clothes, a pair of shoes, a jacket, a toy and a book.
Please join me in congratulating Amelia and Craig.
Stan