Message-ID: <19447600.1075860988510.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Mon, 19 Nov 2001 09:13:40 -0800 (PST)
From: no.address@enron.com
Subject: ETS Year-end Performance Evaluation Process
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=ANSI_X3.4-1968
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Gary Smith- VP of Human Resources@ENRON
X-To: Enron Transportation Services Everyone - All@ENRON <??SEnron Transportation Services Everyone - All@ENRON>
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Lokay-M
X-FileName: mlokay (Non-Privileged).pst


The year-end performance evaluation process is a great opportunity for employees and their supervisors to review accomplishments for the year and identify opportunities for personal growth.  Additionally, it is an opportunity for each of us to provide meaningful performance feedback to help others.  This memo is intended to summarize the major elements of this important process and clarify the timeline for year-end 2001.

(Note: ETS employees on self-directed work teams that participate in the Skill-based Pay program will complete team and peer performance reviews as they have in the past and are exempted from the discussion that follows.)

Feedback and Evaluation
Employees will solicit 360? feedback on their performance via the PEP system. The supervisor will use this feedback, along with other performance data about the employee, to prepare a written evaluation of the employee's performance for the year.  The employee and supervisor will then meet and discuss this evaluation which provides an objective measure of the employee's performance against expectations.  The performance evaluation is an opportunity to discuss accomplishments, areas for improvement and goals for the next year.  No overall performance rating will be designated.

?	PEP System open for feedback			November 19 - December 7
?	Performance discussions with supervisor	December 10 - January 14
?	Written evaluations due to HR			January 15

Training for all employees on how to use the PEP system will be available via online tutorials.

Compensation
Increases in an employee's base pay for merit, promotion or equity can be recommended by an individual supervisor based on the employee's performance, current responsibilities and salary.  Division Head approval is required.

As always, incentive awards are paid at the discretion of the Enron Board Compensation Committee and the Enron Office of the Chairman based on company and business unit performance. Once bonus pools are approved, individual bonuses will be determined by division and department heads based on employee performance.

Relative Talent Reviews
Relative talent reviews will occur beginning January 16, 2002 and will include discussions of Managers and above.  The focus is not on relative ranking but on identifying employees who best demonstrate the performance, skills and behaviors that are valued at Enron.  Each Division will identify its top 10% and discuss the utilization of its top talent.  Employees who may be ready to assume greater responsibilities will be discussed.  Recommendations for promotions will be considered up through Senior Director.  EGS executive management will review Vice Presidents and Managing Directors and identify the top 10% in this officer group.  Nomination for promotions to Vice President and Managing Director levels will be made to the Enron Management Committee, which will make final decisions on these promotions.

If you have any questions about any aspect of this year-end process, I encourage you to contact your HR representative.

Gary
