Message-ID: <24155351.1075844087153.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Thu, 26 Oct 2000 15:58:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: ets.announcement@enron.com
To: enron.employees@enron.com
Subject: ETS Operations Realignment
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=ANSI_X3.4-1968
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: ETS General Announcement
X-To: Enron Transportation Services Employees
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: LOKAY-M
X-FileName: mlokay.nsf

With the recent announcement of Enron Engineering and Construction Company 
(EECC) becoming a part of Enron Transportation Services Company, Operations 
is making the following realignments effective Nov. 1:

Jerry Martin will become vice president, ETS engineering and construction 
reporting to Phil Lowry, managing director, ETS operations.  Reporting to 
Jerry includes:

? Jordan Hunter, Jim Alexander and Paul Fuhrer, project directors, 
? Dave Sinclair, director, right of way,     
? Frank Osburn, director, design and records,
? Arnold Eisenstein, director, compression,
? Greg Mathews, director, project controls, and
? Norm Spalding, director, regional projects.

John Keller, senior director, ETS, will continue to report to Phil Lowry.  
Reporting to John includes:

? Ben Asante, director, optimization,
? Terri Galassini, director, planning, and 
? Gary Maestas (Houston), Mike Bonstetter (Omaha), directors, mechanical 
services.

Rick Craig, vice president, operations technical services, will have 
responsibility for Enron Machine and Mechanical Services, Inc., including the 
Clifton and Beaver machine shop teams, and will continue to report to Phil 
Lowry.  Reporting to Rick includes:

? Ken Crowl, director, controls and electrical services,
? Kenneth Cessac, director, measurement services, and
? Max Brown, director, corrosion and pipeline risk management services.

In addition, ETS operations supply management will become part of ETS 
finance, accounting and administration under the leadership of Rod Hayslett, 
managing director.

Please join me in wishing these individuals success in their assigned 
responsibilities.