Message-ID: <13878687.1075844087420.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Wed, 8 Nov 2000 10:27:00 -0800 (PST)
From: enron.announcements@enron.com
To: enron.operations@enron.com
Subject: ETS Shuttle Plane Service
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Enron Announcements
X-To: Enron Transportation Services Operations
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: LOKAY-M
X-FileName: mlokay.nsf

With the realignment of ETS, we want to remind you of the procedures for 
booking company aircraft service.  As you probably know, one Enron plane has 
been designated for use by ETS for travel between Houston and Omaha and for 
other trips as approved by the vice presidents or us.  Of course, a key 
consideration for approval is the number of passengers, which generally is a 
minimum of 4 - 6, and/or the difficulty of reaching the destination(s) by 
commercial airlines.  The plane is booked on a first come, first served 
basis.  To encourage maximum utilization of the plane, a weekly schedule is 
published and distributed to ETS support team members each week.

Virginia O'Neill coordinates the plane schedule and will continue to do so 
for all trips originating from Omaha.  In addition, we have begun utilizing 
charter aircraft service for trips originating from Omaha within a mileage 
range of 700 - 800 miles.  The utilization of charters for these trips will 
reduce travel costs by eliminating deadhead costs.  Virginia will continue to 
coordinate charter trips from Omaha also.  Beginning today, Julie Armstrong 
will coordinate trips originating from Houston.  Julie and Virginia will work 
together to continue publishing the weekly plane schedule so that travelers 
can utilize the plane when available.   Please remember that company plane 
usage requires the approval of your vice president.  If employees are 
reserving individual available seats on a scheduled flight, vice presidential 
approval isn't required.

If space is available, personal travel for employees and their immediate 
families is permitted.  Imputed income for the cost of the flight will be 
included in the employee's W-2 form at the end of the year.  Please remember 
that personal travelers are always subject to being bumped up to departure 
time by business travelers and that the schedule is subject to frequent 
change.

Please have the following information available when contacting Julie or 
Virginia to book a flight:

 Date of travel & destination  
Lead passenger's name
Other passenger's names (generally need 4 - 6 passengers)
Departure & return times
Ground transportation requirements (if rental cars are required, 
please have the individual's American Express number or Emerald Isle number 
available).
 Purpose of the trip
 Coding if the trip is being charged to a work order

We will continue to monitor usage of the company plane to maximize its usage 
and provide needed private aircraft service for ETS.  In addition, we expect 
that, except for NBPL, the actual aircraft usage cost will be billed directly 
to the user's cost center in year 2001.  However, the billing details are 
still being worked out and will be communicated when finalized.  If you have 
questions or comments, you may contact either of us or Julie or Virginia.