Message-ID: <30882994.1075844087495.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Fri, 10 Nov 2000 09:42:00 -0800 (PST)
From: ets.announcement@enron.com
To: enron.operations@enron.com
Subject: ETS Operations Technical Services Organization
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: ETS General Announcement
X-To: Enron Transportation Services Operations
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: LOKAY-M
X-FileName: mlokay.nsf

The mission of ETS Operations Technical Services (OTS) remains unchanged.  
Our goal is to be an integral part of field operations, provide the highest 
level of technical support possible and assist the field operations teams in 
achieving their objectives.  To that end and as a part of ETS's on-going 
transition of merging  ETS's and EOTT's Operations, I am pleased to announce 
a realignment of ETS Operations Technical Services.  

The purpose of these changes is to better align our technical resources with 
the new Operations Areas and teams and better serve their needs.  Therefore, 
we will form Area Technical Support Teams for each of the Technical 
disciplines (Corrosion, Measurement and Controls & Electrical):  

Max Brown, Director of Corrosion Services, will lead the Corrosion teams.
Kenneth Cessac, Director of Measurement Services, will have responsibility 
for the Measurement Support teams.
Ken Crowl, Director of Controls and Electrical Services will provide 
leadership to the C&E teams.  
Steve Klimesh, Business Consultant, will provide on-going support to ETS on 
UAF and other continuous improvement initiatives.   
The Clifton and Beaver machines shops will remain a part of OTS as we 
continue to grow the Enron Machine and Mechanical Services business.  

The attached organizational charts show the new Tech Services.  The vacancies 
reflected on the charts are an effort to shore up our technical support staff 
for operating the EOTT assets.  In the coming weeks, our Technical Support 
Teams will be further defining their support roles to the Region and team 
level and working diligently to fill these vacancies.  Any thoughts or 
comments that you might have regarding these changes are certainly 
appreciated.  Please feel free to call me or any of the OTS Directors with 
your feedback or for assistance.  Our goal is to continue to provide the best 
service possible to you, our customers.  
