Message-ID: <10780181.1075849857586.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Fri, 16 Feb 2001 10:29:00 -0800 (PST)
From: greg.piper@enron.com
To: thomas.gros@enron.com, andy.zipper@enron.com, rex.shelby@enron.com, 
	sally.beck@enron.com
Subject: RE: CommodityHub Meetings with PwC and Accenture
Cc: philippe.bibi@enron.com
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
Bcc: philippe.bibi@enron.com
X-From: Greg Piper
X-To: Thomas D Gros, Andy Zipper, Rex Shelby, Sally Beck
X-cc: Philippe A Bibi
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: BECK-S
X-FileName: sbeck.nsf

I assume this meeting is strictly for Accenture and PWC to pitch their vision 
to Enron on how they would help add value or help Enron execute mid/back 
office and/or CommodityLogic in a commercial manner.  I don't want this 
meeting related at all to Andy's efforts with Accenture related to 
transaction feeds unless Andy thinks it is OK.

I have told Baldwin at Accenture that Mid/back office and CommodityLogic is 
separate from what he is working on with Dave Samuals and Andy on Transaction 
hubs and is separate from DealBench, etc.  If we are not careful, Accenture 
will be working with four or five different points of contact at Net Works 
and we will end up hurting ourselves.

I am counting on Salley, Rex, Andy and Tom ASAP to each understand what the 
other is doing with Accenture and make sure there is no way Accenture can 
work us to our disadvantage. I also think Accenture needs to earn our 
business because others can do what they are offering.

Also, check with Rex Shelby on PWC.  We just had an uncomfortable experience 
with PWC that everyone should understand.  I recommended an Accenture meeting 
but if Tom wants PWC, he should understand what they did to Rex.

Remember, all of this is very confidential so let's be very careful 
internally and no meetings without transaction specific NDAs.

Your thoughts?

I am out next week but will check voice mail daily at 36635.

Good luck.

GP

 -----Original Message-----
From:  Gros, Thomas D.  
Sent: Friday, February 16, 2001 3:26 PM
To: Piper, Greg; Zipper, Andy; Arora, Harry
Cc: Spiller, Tina; Lewis, Barbara; Cannon, Lydia; Flores-Cuellar, Brenda; 
Sandoval, Maria
Subject: CommodityHub Meetings with PwC and Accenture

In a meeting today with Greg, it became clear that all of us running Net 
Works platforms are heading down the path of creating some form of a "neutral 
hub" for the industry to use to exchange data.

At Greg's suggestion, I am trying to arrange meetings with PwC (Pat Guzman, 
Phil Greedy) and Accenture (Kenny Baldwin) on February 26 and/or 27 to see if 
either of them represent good candidates to administer the hub. The meetings 
will be held in the Enron building and should run about an hour.

My assistant will be contacting you/your assistants to coordinate these two 
meetings.

All the best,

Tom
