Message-ID: <13826539.1075849857407.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Thu, 5 Apr 2001 08:25:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: greg.piper@enron.com
To: sally.beck@enron.com
Subject: FW: Costs/Mid Back office commercialization
Cc: louise.kitchen@enron.com, rahil.jafry@enron.com
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
Bcc: louise.kitchen@enron.com, rahil.jafry@enron.com
X-From: Greg Piper
X-To: Sally Beck
X-cc: Louise Kitchen, Rahil Jafry
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: BECK-S
X-FileName: sbeck.nsf

Why don't you and Rahil agree on the draft ASAP and then let Rahil send it 
out in draft form this Friday afternoon to all these individuals for their 
review and comments.  Rahil can work with these people directly next week on 
their comments.  Rahil is free from the day-to-day operations issues and has 
the time to push the product menu to the EA Originators.

We can still set up an offsite to finalize, but we need to get something out 
because these individuals are already out selling as we speak.

GP



 -----Original Message-----
From:  Kitchen, Louise  
Sent: Thursday, April 05, 2001 11:15 AM
To: Beck, Sally
Cc: Piper, Greg; Jafry, Rahil
Subject: Re: Costs

Shukaly resigned and left.

But I assume the invitation will be extended to all of their groups so that 
whoever they want can attend. 

I would actually prefer that the presentation is actually circulated to the 
groups on Friday rather than presented as we will wait forever on getting an 
offsite together.  How about circulating the presentation and then letting 
them refer all questions to Rahil - see how much interest you get.  One on 
ones are much better and I think this is how Rahil should proceed.  We need 
to get in front of customers in the next couple of weeks.

Let's aim to get a least three customers this quarter.

Louise


   

	Enron Capital & Trade Resources Corp.  From:  Sally Beck                      
     04/04/2001 07:08 PM
	


To: Louise Kitchen/HOU/ECT@ECT
cc: Greg Piper/Corp/Enron 

Subject: Re: Costs  

Rahil is working with me on a presentation that covers what our services are, 
the creation of a pricing desk, how that will work (process and revenue 
sharing), selling of services for others, our operations pricing model, the 
DASH process, key contacts in operations, etc.  I expect to review a draft by 
this Friday.  Tomorrow we will have the date set for such a meeting.  We are 
checking travel schedules for Laura Luce and Max Y. to see if we can catch 
both in Houston sometime next week.  Greg Piper suggests a meeting with all 
origination heads at once (a mini offsite).  We will do that if we can set a 
date that works for a majority.  If that doesn't work, we will simply do 
one-on-ones over the next ten days to get everyone.  Targeted attendees are:

Gas   Frank Vickers (East)
   Laura Luce (Central)
   Barry Tycholiz (West)

Derivatives  Fred LaGrasta

Power  Dave Duran
   Ozzie Pagan
   Ed Baughman
   

Portland  Chris Calger

Calgary  Ladain

Mexico  Max Y. 

When you and I met we discussed most of these names.  I added the Calgary guy 
and Max.  I also want to share this info with Bob Shults and his EOL 
marketing team.  They talk with a lot of customers and may have the 
opportunity to bring up our services as well.  We have spent some time with 
Jean Mrha and John Grass, and will share the presentation with them as well.  

Do you want to add any names?   If we do wind up with one date that will work 
for most, I will let you know that tomorrow so that you can attend if you 
would like.  --Sally  
 



Louise Kitchen
04/04/2001 03:50 PM
To: Sally Beck/HOU/ECT@ECT
cc:  
Subject: Costs

Weren't we supposed to be having a meeting on costs of back office services 
with the Heads of Origination?  Are we close to having this?

Thanks

Louise




