Message-ID: <29509149.1075844050848.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Tue, 28 Nov 2000 01:35:00 -0800 (PST)
From: lorna.brennan@enron.com
To: jeffery.fawcett@enron.com, lorraine.lindberg@enron.com, 
	kevin.hyatt@enron.com, christine.stokes@enron.com, 
	tk.lohman@enron.com, michelle.lokay@enron.com, 
	lindy.donoho@enron.com, steven.harris@enron.com, 
	eileen.peebles@enron.com, jeff.nielsen@enron.com, 
	jo.williams@enron.com
Subject: 3 Maintenance Notes
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Lorna Brennan
X-To: Jeffery Fawcett, Lorraine Lindberg, Kevin Hyatt, Christine Stokes, TK Lohman, Michelle Lokay, Lindy Donoho, Steven Harris, Eileen Peebles, Jeff Nielsen, Jo Williams
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: LOKAY-M
X-FileName: mlokay.nsf

In a letter last month (see Daily GPI, Oct. 19), Northwest announced a policy 
revision allowing a shipper holding capacity from Sumas to off-system 
delivery points to amend primary delivery points and shorten the path without 
being subject to a contractual OFO upon extending its contract term. However, 
citing "the current OFO situation on the pipeline system," Northwest said 
last week the policy change is under review and has been suspended until 
further notice. 


El Paso reported Thursday an injection unit at its Washington Ranch storage 
facility had gone down for emergency maintenance. Capacity through Pecos 
River Station has been reduced by 100 MMcf/d until further notice, causing 
the pipeline to impose allocations on Permian Basin production and deliveries 
of San Juan Basin gas to the South Mainline. 


El Paso said work on Lines 1106 and 1107 was extended by one more day, 
causing the shut-in of deliveries into El Paso at the IUTBENED and IHYBENDM 
interconnects to continue through Dec. 1. The delay also postpones scheduled 
work on Line 3137, which now will be shut in Dec. 4-5, affecting the 
IVALEROZ, ISONORA, ISHOZONA and IBARNHRT points. Line 3177 is scheduled for 
Dec. 7 inspection, affecting IMOBILPE. 
