Message-ID: <13738566.1075844047453.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Thu, 3 Aug 2000 04:11:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: lorna.brennan@enron.com
To: steven.harris@enron.com, jeffery.fawcett@enron.com, 
	lorraine.lindberg@enron.com, kevin.hyatt@enron.com, 
	christine.stokes@enron.com, tk.lohman@enron.com, 
	michelle.lokay@enron.com, lindy.donoho@enron.com, 
	lee.huber@enron.com, susan.scott@enron.com
Subject: TW Notes
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Lorna Brennan
X-To: Steven Harris, Jeffery Fawcett, Lorraine Lindberg, Kevin Hyatt, Christine Stokes, TK Lohman, Michelle Lokay, Lindy Donoho, Lee Huber, Susan Scott
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: LOKAY-M
X-FileName: mlokay.nsf

Kern River Open Season

Kern River is holding an open season through Aug. 18 to determine interest in 
year-round FT to Nevada 
and California and interest in capacity relinquishment by existing firm 
shippers. The pipeline said it can 
offer significantly reduced FT rates based on recent FERC approval of Kern 
River's Extended Term 
Rate Program (ET Program). Under ET Program, customers could receive a rate 
reduction from $0.64/Dth 
to approximately $0.42 under a 15-year contract. Because system expansion can 
be accomplished by the 
addition of compression facilities, it could result in an overall lowering of 
rolled-in rates for all shippers, Kern 
River said. Depending on open season results, the pipeline is proposing a 
mainline expansion of up to 500 
MMcf/d with an in-service target date of May 1, 2002. If goals can be met 
using relinquished capacity and no 
new facilities are required, new service could begin as early as Oct. 1, 
2001. Call Laurie Brown at 
(801) 584-6410 or Greg Snow at -7270 for more information. 


Panda Links to Transmission Grid for Gila Bend Plant

Panda Energy International inked a firm electrical transmission agreement 
with Arizona Public Service to 
supply power from its proposed natural gas-fired 2,000 MW plant to be located 
in the town of Gila Bend. The 
proposed plant is before the Arizona Corporation Committee for review. Senior 
vice president of merchant 
plant development for Panda, Garry Hubbard, said that the firm contract is "a 
critical step forward for the
plant." The new plant is on schedule to commence construction later this 
year, with start up 18 months later, 
he added. Powering the plant will be eight General Electric 7 FA natural gas 
turbines operating in combined 
cycle. 