Message-ID: <8087983.1075860993290.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Wed, 9 Jan 2002 12:27:20 -0800 (PST)
From: confadmin@ziffenergy.com
To: michelle.lokay@enron.com
Subject: Gas Storage Conference - Ziff Energy Group
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Conference Administrator <confadmin@ziffenergy.com>
X-To: Lokay, Michelle </O=ENRON/OU=NA/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=MLOKAY>
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Lokay-M
X-FileName: mlokay (Non-Privileged).pst

Too much of a good thing? 

It seems we have overcompensated with storage fill and even the winter won't
reverse falling gas prices?  Now, how do we recover? 

Register for Ziff Energy's annual gas storage conference 
before January 14, save $100, and find out! 

Redefining the Fundamentals of Gas Storage: 
Is Gas Still in the Storage Game? 
February 6-7, Houston 

A Full-Value Agenda.......tackling pricing issues, unique needs of power
producers, increasing demand for customized services. Hearing about new
storage projects and technology. 

Offered by some of North America's leading experts: 
Phil Scalzo, VP Origination, Williams Energy Marketing & Trading 
Larry Bickle, Managing Director, Haddington Resources 
Kyle Cooper, VP & Energy Analyst, Salomon, Smith, Barney 
John Hopper, President, Falcon Gas Storage 
Robert Jones, Director, Eastern Bus. Dev., TransCanada  PipeLines  

IN-DEPTH SEMINARS
Power Generator Seminar 
How Calpine Corporation is handling its gas storage and deliverability 
requirements   

Storage Pricing Seminar 
Comprehensive insights for 2002: storage pricing volatility, effects on
commodity 
and options pricing, leveraging opportunities 

PROJECT DISPLAYS 

Current projects of North America's leading storage providers:
How they're using new technology, handling challenges, seizing opportunities

  
VALUABLE NETWORKING OPPORTUNITIES

TEXAS WELCOME  - Hosted by Bloomberg
Pre-conference get-together, February 5, 7-10 p.m. 
Special invitation to all conference registrants 
 
  

DELEGATES' RECEPTION  - Sponsored by Northwinds Pipeline
February 6 at 5:00 p.m. -  All conference delegates welcome 
    
For more information, please visit our website at 
www.ziffenergyconferences.com. 

To register, contact us at 1-800-853-6252.  

Note:   If you have already registered for this conference, or would like to
be taken off the email list, please reply to this email and type in
UNSUBSCRIBE in the subject line.