Message-ID: <20557930.1075840947873.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Fri, 14 Sep 2001 07:15:11 -0700 (PDT)
From: robert.virgo@enron.com
To: louise.kitchen@enron.com
Subject: FW: EnTouch Newsletter
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=ANSI_X3.4-1968
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Virgo, Robert </O=ENRON/OU=NA/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=RVIRGO>
X-To: Kitchen, Louise </O=ENRON/OU=NA/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=Lkitchen>
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: KITCHEN-L
X-FileName: louise kitchen 2-7-02.pst

FYI

-----Original Message-----
From: ENA.Public.Relations@enron.com
[mailto:ENA.Public.Relations@enron.com]
Sent: Thursday, September 13, 2001 10:17 PM
To: En.Touch.Newsletter.List@enron.com
Subject: EnTouch Newsletter



(Embedded image moved to file: pic26962.pcx)

BUSINESS HIGHLIGHTS

Enron Global Markets - Coal and Emissions Trading
The first Enron Online synfuel trade occurred this past week, establishing
EnronOnline as the only online marketplace for synfuel.  The purpose of
bringing synfuel on EnronOnline is to provide market transparency between
the coal/synfuel spread.

The coal cash book, which began trading only two months ago, has traded
over 2 million spot tons.  The fundamental purpose of this book is to
capture short term market discrepancies, while also adding liquidity to the
spot market to further long term trading and marketing of coal.

Enron Energy and Operational Services - ENA Solid Fuel Initiative
ENA started development of a Coal Initiative late last year to support the
electricity trading desk and to provide Enron with a hedge in the event
that the cost of natural gas continues to escalate above current long term
projections.  Because of the culture shock associated the use of the words
'Enron' and 'coal' in the same sentence, consideration was been given to
changing the name to DNG (Dense Natural Gas); however, we went with Solid
Fuel Initiative.

This initiative is developing multiple sites throughout the country where
ENA feels there is the greatest opportunity for long term corporate
benefit.  The primary areas are Texas, Florida, southeastern Ohio and the
central Rocky Mountain Area.  There are 2 principal areas currently being
aggressively pursued:  Brownsville, TX and Brighton FL.  In Brownsville,
the Team secured formal Owner approval to lease a 600 acre site near the
Brownsville Ship Channel.  This approval will allow the formal permitting
activities to proceed without delay.

A 500 MW facility is being considered for Brownsville.  As conceptualized,
it will consist of two - 250 MW (net) CFB units (Circulating Fluidized Bed)
Boilers. The boilers will be fired by petroleum coke (petcoke) and use a
technology that will generate electricity in the most environmentally
friendly way currently possible.  One of the advantages of locating this
facility near Brownsville is that it remains a steady growth area and there
is already serious interest by others to take substantial initial base load
capacity.  There is further synergy with other developing projects in the
area that could lock down additional base capacity.  As stated the plant is
initially 500 MW, but will be designed to be expanded to a 1000 MW
facility.

The  EEOS  team  is  starting  to  grow and currently includes Hilda Akin &
Cheryl  Kent,  Project Admin Assistants, Bill Fox as PEM, and Paula Solomon
as  PCM.  As the project develops there will be more team members required.
In  addition,  as  the  Florida opportunity develops we plan to establish a
separate team.

eSource
eSource, Enron's research group, recently posted on its website a Forrester
report as well as analyst reports for various industry and companies.
These reports are free and available to all Enron employees on the eSource
Hot Topics page at http://esource.enron.com/hot_topics.asp <
http://esource.enron.com/hot_topics.asp>.  To date, over 1,600 employees
have downloaded "Spending Wisely on Private Hubs", a report valued at
$2,000.  Over 1,100 employees to date have viewed the analyst reports,
provided by Investext.  The reports, which are updated continuously, are
presented in folders by company and industry.  New folders are being added
upon request.  To submit a suggestion for a new folder, please complete the
suggestion form at http://esource.enron.com/suggestion.asp <
http://esource.enron.com/suggestion.asp>.

Watch for the new eSource bulletin, The Source.  It will feature frequently
requested searches, tips on finding information, new products, services,
and events.

Meanwhile, to further fulfill Enron's information needs, eSource has
arranged for analysts and bureau chiefs of various organizations and
publishing houses to offer seminars to Enron employees.

Enron Freight Markets
EFM signed a firm contract with Streamline Shippers Association last week
to provide truckload capacity for one-year with EFM's option to extend the
contract for up to an additional year.  Streamline transloads international
shipments that enter the U.S. through the ports of Long Beach and Los
Angeles.  Streamline then consolidates the shipments into full truckloads
destined to the major population centers throughout the country.  EFM will
begin moving shipments to northeast destinations this week.

IN THE NEWS

We are pleased to announce that Sally Beck has been named Chief Operating
Officer for Enron Net Works.  She will join Greg Piper, President and Chief
Executive Officer and Mark Pickering, Chief Technology Officer in the Enron
Net Works Office of the Chair.

In her current role as Managing Director for Enron Net Works, Sally heads
up Enron's Global Risk Management Operations.  She brings more than 20
years professional experience to Enron, joining the Company in 1992.  She
graduated from the University of Texas at Austin with a B.B.A. in Marketing
and an MBA with a concentration in Finance.

WELCOME
New Hires
EGM  - Robert Bogucki, Adam Gianonne
EIM   - Sylvia Miller
ENA  - Theresa McBride, Sriram Vasudevan, Jonathan McKay

Transfers (to or within)
ENA -Brandon Cavazos
EGM - Michael Garcia

NUGGETS & NOTES

Congratulations to Rahul Kumar for passing the CFA Level III Exam.

Weather Risk Management
The weather group is pleased to welcome several new people to their group.
Trevor Nathan and Norm Trethewey have joined the Australia office and Kaoru
Hijikata has joined the Tokyo office. Please welcome them to our team.

EnronOnline Figures

Below are the latest figures for EnronOnline as of September 7

   ?       Total Life to Date Transactions > 1,420,000
   ?       Life to Date Notional Value of Transactions > $809 billion

Enron Best Practice Tips
United Parcel Service (UPS) Delivers the Following Air Products:
UPS Next Day Air Early A.M. - 8:30 a.m. to selected zip codes
UPS Next Day Air - guaranteed by 10:30 a.m.
UPS Next Day Air Saver - guaranteed by 3:00 p.m.
UPS 2nd Day Air AM - guaranteed by 12:00 p.m.
UPS 2nd Day Air - guaranteed by end of second day
UPS 3-Day Select - guaranteed by end of third day
UPS International Service - World-wide Express Plus, by 8:30 a.m. to select
cities in Europe
UPS World-wide Express - second business day

For questions about selected cities and zip codes, please call the Enron
Preferred Customer Associate at 800-432-2877.
UPS is Enron's preferred vendor for express deliveries.


LEGAL STUFF
The information contained in this newsletter is confidential and
proprietary to Enron Corp. and its subsidiaries.  It is intended for
internal use only and should not be disclosed.