Message-ID: <7144942.1075840947898.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Thu, 13 Sep 2001 14:45:04 -0700 (PDT)
From: keith.dodson@enron.com
To: louise.kitchen@enron.com
Subject: RE: Cancellation of the Master Tasking Letter
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Dodson, Keith </O=ENRON/OU=NA/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=KDODSON>
X-To: Kitchen, Louise </O=ENRON/OU=NA/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=Lkitchen>
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: KITCHEN-L
X-FileName: louise kitchen 2-7-02.pst

Louise,

This is better in my opinion.  It tends to force better definition from the developer and his team. Your costs are reduced when we have good definition.  

Keith

 -----Original Message-----
From: 	Kitchen, Louise  
Sent:	Thursday, September 13, 2001 12:20 PM
To:	Duran, W. David; Jacoby, Ben; Irvin, Steve; Kroll, Heather; Virgo, Robert; Mays, Wayne; Morris, Sandy; Golden, Bruce; Rose, Steven; Chmielewski, Robert; Rimbau, Robert W.; Coffer, Walter; Austin, Terri; Booth, Eric; Newlin, Ross; Garrison, John; Aboudaher, Omar; Williams, Dan E.; Gordon, D'ann
Cc:	Coleman, Mike; Virgo, Robert; Dodson, Keith; Stanley, Brian
Subject:	FW: Cancellation of the Master Tasking Letter

To be clear this is not a major step change, nor is it designed to slow business.  Very simply, we are moving to the methodology used successfullly by the West Power Group which allows for clear billing and planning for all involved.

Louise


From: 	Coleman, Mike  
Sent:	13 September 2001 09:51
To:	Dodson, Keith; Stanley, Brian
Cc:	Duran, W. David; Jacoby, Ben; Irvin, Steve; Kroll, Heather; Virgo, Robert; Mays, Wayne; Morris, Sandy; Golden, Bruce; Rose, Steven; Chmielewski, Robert; Rimbau, Robert W.; Coffer, Walter; Austin, Terri; Booth, Eric; Newlin, Ross; Garrison, John; Aboudaher, Omar; Williams, Dan E.; Gordon, D'ann
Subject:	Cancellation of the Master Tasking Letter

Keith and Brian,

ENA Management has declined to approve extention of the Master Tasking Letter.  The result of this is that no funding is approved for any work by EOS other than by the few specific tasking letters that have been approved for specific tasks.  As of tomorrow, 15 September, the MTL will be closed and no further charges will be accepted against this charge number.

Going forward, no charges for EOS or other services outside ENA will be authorized except those approved under a signed Tasking Letter specific to the relevant project.  No Tasking Letter will be issues for approval until the responsible ENA developer/originator establishes an ENA charge number against which charges applied to a Tasking Letter can be charged.  

We will attempt to schedule a meeting next week to wrap up costs and review any on-going critical needs.  In the meantime, inform any of your staff charging to the MTL that this charge number is closed after tomorrow.

Thanks!

Mike