Message-ID: <30067367.1075840847191.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Wed, 12 Sep 2001 13:56:18 -0700 (PDT)
From: rob.milnthorp@enron.com
To: louise.kitchen@enron.com
Subject: RE: End of quarter Funds Flow Targets
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Milnthorp, Rob </O=ENRON/OU=NA/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=RMILNTH>
X-To: Kitchen, Louise </O=ENRON/OU=NA/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=Lkitchen>
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: KITCHEN-L
X-FileName: louise kitchen 2-7-02.pst

Louise, I can certainly put this together for you but I'm not sure it will be of much use - Canada has always been considered as "restricted cash" since the ENA cannot sweep without cross-border tax implications. As a result, Houston in the past has not required any cash flow numbers. Please advise, thanks, rob.

 -----Original Message-----
From: 	Kitchen, Louise  
Sent:	Wednesday, September 12, 2001 11:06 AM
To:	Allen, Phillip K.; Arnold, John; Arora, Harry; Baughman, Edward D.; Belden, Tim; Black, Don; Breslau, Craig; Calger, Christopher F.; Collonges, Remi; Colwell, Wes; Davies, Derek; Davis, Mark Dana; Dayao, Anthony; Deffner, Joseph; Devries, Paul; Duran, W. David; Dutt, Ranabir; Forster, David; Foster, Chris H.; Gonzalez, Orlando; Grigsby, Mike; Haedicke, Mark E.; Herndon, Rogers; Josey, Scott; Keel, Allan; Kishkill, Joe; Kitagawa, Kyle; Kitchen, Louise; Lagrasta, Fred; Luce, Laura; Martin, Thomas A.; Mcdonald, Michael; McMichael Jr., Ed; Miller, Don (Asset Mktg); Milnthorp, Rob; Mrha, Jean; Neal, Scott; Parquet, David; Presto, Kevin M.; Redmond, Brian; Shively, Hunter S.; Sturm, Fletcher J.; Swerzbin, Mike; Thomas, Jake; Thompson, John; Tricoli, Carl; Tycholiz, Barry; Vickers, Frank W.; Whitt, Mark; Wiggs, Brett; Wolfe, Greg; Zipper, Andy; Zufferli, John
Cc:	Deffner, Joseph; Lavorato, John
Subject:	End of quarter Funds Flow Targets

As we approach the end of the quarter we are closely monitoring our funds flow targets for Enron Americas.  We would like you to let us know if you are planning to enter into any transactions within your groups which will impact those targets, either positively or negatively.  We would like information on all deals which impact significantly our funds flow targets prior to you entering into them.  Please note that this is not just structured transactions but even a storage transaction where we would be injecting would involve cash going out of Enron.

Enron's cash liquidity position is very strong and there is not an issue of whether or not we enter into a transaction but we must ensure we correctly price any transactions and indeed send clear signals to the orginators and traders with regards to our funds flow targets.

Please let John or Louise know if you have any transactions which may occur with funds flow implications.  Should you need any indications of pricing, please contact Joe Deffner.

Louise & John