Message-ID: <29174624.1075840785848.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Thu, 26 Apr 2001 09:37:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: joaocneves@email.msn.com
To: vince.j.kaminski@enron.com
Subject: Interview - Credit Derivatives
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: JoaoCNeves  <JoaoCNeves@email.msn.com>
X-To: Vince.J.Kaminski@enron.com
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: KAMINSKI-V
X-FileName: vincent kaminski 1-30-02.pst


         
 
        Dear  Vince:
 
        Thank you for  the invitation yesterday. It was a pleasure to meet you all and learn more about  the group, it's structure and to some extent what you are involved in. Please  extend my thanks to all of them.
 
        I am  particularly interested in the Credit Swap trading platform that Enron has  recently started. Such a platform will provide unique visibility into the Credit  markets. As you suggested I tried to learn more about this from Tanya. I  would like to learn more and if possible meet other people more directly linked  to the effort.
 
        Just simple  instruments like Credit Swaps will require serious modelling capability for the  pricing and the hedging of these apparently simple intruments. The market  visibility I mention above can be explored through Credit Derivatives Trading  successfully if Enron possesses superior (vis a vis Morgan Stanley, Salomon  Smith Barney, Chase Manhatan, etc.) modelling technology in Credit  Derivatives. I can and would like to consider the possibility of doing this  for Enron. I would like to help develop and participate in putting together that  business.
 
        As I  mentioned to you I have done some work in Credit Derivatives and am deeply  familiar with virtually all the work of the principal academics in Credit  Derivatives namely: Duffie, Lando, Tuffano, Duffee, Das, Lelland, etc. I have  read carefully most of their work (published as well as working papers) on the  subject to date.
 
        I look  forward to hearing from you.
 
        Best  regards
 
         Joao