Message-ID: <16702500.1075856622207.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Fri, 17 Nov 2000 10:01:00 -0800 (PST)
From: qchen1@tulane.edu
To: vince.j.kaminski@enron.com
Subject: MBA Career Opportunity
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=ANSI_X3.4-1968
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: "Qing Chen" <qchen1@tulane.edu>
X-To: <Vince.J.Kaminski@enron.com>
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Kaminski-V
X-FileName: vkamins.nsf

Dear?Vincent Kaminski:
?
I got your contact details from the  web site for power marketers. I have a 
strong interest in pursuing a career in  the energy industry?with a top 
energy company like?Enron, where my  abilities and qualifications can be 
fully applied for our mutual benefit.  

I am graduating in May with an  MBA?degree with concentrations in finance and 
information systems. This  summer I worked?as an intern with Structuring and 
Analytics group of Ameren  Energy.?This internship?has been especially  
challenging and has enhanced my professional competencies. While there, I  
was afforded the opportunity to?develop a forward view  model?for?off-
peak?electricity price forecasting and analyze the  data sets of a 
fundamental?model to create forward price curves. Both  projects added value 
to the company and provided me with first-hand experience  in the area of 
energy trading and marketing as well as modeling  techniques.

In addition, I have an undergraduate degree in Mechanical  Engineering and 
two years' experience in power generating. With my work  experience in energy 
finance and exceptional academic and professional  achievements, along with 
my exemplary leadership and management potential and  outstanding analytical, 
business communication, problem-solving and computer  skills, I'm convinced 
that I will be able to make immediate contributions to  your company. 

I am attaching my resume for your review. Should you have  any questions or 
need clarification, please feel free to contact me at (504)  861-9110 or 
qchen1@tulane.edu.

As I have some offers with deadlines  approaching, I would appreciate it if 
you could give me a quick response. I also  expect?a base compensation above 
$75k. I look forward to?hearing from  you soon.
?
Best Regards,

Qing (Christine) Chen
MBA  2001
A.B. Freeman School of Business
Tulane University
Tel: (504)  861-9110
 - resumeUS.doc
 - resumeUS txt.txt