Message-ID: <7321526.1075856622317.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Tue, 14 Nov 2000 09:10:00 -0800 (PST)
From: epr@pipeline.com
To: vince.j.kaminski@enron.com
Subject: RE: Seeking opportunity in computational finance
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: "Paul Rowady" <epr@pipeline.com>
X-To: <Vince.J.Kaminski@enron.com>
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Kaminski-V
X-FileName: vkamins.nsf

Dear Vince:

Thanks for your response.

I am not a programmer, nor a "quant".  I am an expert in Excel and otherwise
have advanced skills in the remaining MSOffice Suite.  Beyond that I have
extensive experience working with research and computer progamming personnel
on projects from networks to databases, and in particular, automation.

For instance, the first generation of the risk analytics system that I
designed for Quantlab was done in Excel.  In subsequent generations of the
system, Excel served only as the GUI - given its extreme flexibility - and a
SQL database operated underneath (Compaq servers, RAID array), integrating
real-time operations for all components of the system.

The research team at Quantlab used many leading edge modelling
methodologies, such as genetic algorithms, neural networks, principal
component analysis, kernel density estimation, fast kernel regression,
Hidden Markov Modelling and many other pattern recognition, walk-forward
back testing, and other simulation techniques.

I was the sole individual on a team of 17 that had any practical trading
experience, and therefore, felt that I played a critical role in the
application and implementation of each of the system components from data
mining to research to signal generation to execution.  Beyond that, I was
uniquely qualified to articulate the project's mission to investors, and
therefore, was highly successful in spearheading support - financial and
otherwise - from our network.

Althought I did not ask specifically, I surmise from your question that you
are leading a research effort.  I believe that my skill set is best served
as a liaison between research and trading, since I speak both languages.  I
believe that I possess great vision and enthusiasim that could be leveraged
in a group, project or product management role to integrate and streamline
diverse systems and processes; a common scenario in most proprietary
development settings today.

In closing, I would like to learn more about Enron and the financial
technology effort therein through further discussion with you, or if that is
not appropriate, someone to whom you would be comfortable referring me.

I look forward to your thoughts.

Best regards,

Paul


-----Original Message-----
From: Vince.J.Kaminski@enron.com [mailto:Vince.J.Kaminski@enron.com]
Sent: Tuesday, November 14, 2000 4:30 PM
To: epr@pipeline.com
Subject: Re: Seeking opportunity in computational finance



Paul,

Can you give me more information about  your computer skills?

My group is very hands-on oriented and  computer programming is a critical
skill.


Vince





"Paul Rowady" <epr@pipeline.com> on 11/14/2000 04:09:43 PM

To:   "Vince Kaminski" <vkamins@enron.com>
cc:
Subject:  Seeking opportunity in computational finance


Dear Vince:

In following up on my voicemail message today, I attach my resume below for
your review and consideration.

It's ironic that you called while I was putting the message together.  I
will keep it short and look forward to speaking to you at your convenience.

Best regards,

Paul

E. Paul Rowady, Jr.
2300 West Alabama, Suite 69
Houston, Texas  77098

713-807-8624   home / fax
713-539-4541   mobile
epr@pipeline.com

(See attached file: Paul Rowady2.doc)

