Message-ID: <25028833.1075856622477.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Thu, 2 Nov 2000 11:37:00 -0800 (PST)
From: daveandsuecorp@dellnet.com
To: mrobert@enron.com, sgibner@ect.enron.com, vkamins@enron.com
Subject: Interview Follow Up From Susan V. Gonzalez
Cc: molly.magee@enron.com
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=ANSI_X3.4-1968
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
Bcc: molly.magee@enron.com
X-From: "David Gonzalez" <daveandsuecorp@dellnet.com>
X-To: <mrobert@enron.com>, <sgibner@ect.enron.com>, <vkamins@enron.com>
X-cc: <molly.magee@enron.com>
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Kaminski-V
X-FileName: vkamins.nsf

Nov. 2, 2000
?
Michael Roberts, Vice President,  Reseach
Stinson Gibner, Vice President,  Reseach
Vincent Kaminsik, Managing Director,  Research
Enron Corp.
?
Gentlemen, 
Thank you for the opportunity to learn about a new  communication position 
within your group.??Based on our discussions,  here are some initial 
thoughts/observations on the job and the  task.
?
*Daily email newsletter for primarily two  audiences:
??? ???  ??? ??? ??? ???  1.? internal for employees available via the Enron  
intranet
??? ???  ??? ??? ??? ???  2.? external for clients, industry at large
?
*Also suggest the newsletter be sent to a  targeted group of trade press.? As 
this information tool builds  momentum and credibility, it will support the 
leadership positioning  of?Enron's Trading Group.?? Plus, it could become a 
driver for  media inquiries and?requests for further information or 
interviews with  Enron?trading experts.
?
*I heard you wanting internal and external  versions for both morning and 
afternoon distribution.??That  is an aggressive set of daily mailings. I 
would want to review the scope of the  content and look at the frequency.? 
Just like print  publications,?email newsletters are?now the rage and too 
many  are?landing in the email inboxes.??My counsel would be to start  with a 
manageable number and do it well.?You can always increase  frequency.? 
Difficult to cut back on frequency without it appearing as a  take away or 
lack of commitment to the product. Staffing?? 
?
*Invite outside industry analysts or  clients to provide commentary.
?
*Consider developing an "editorial advisory  board" to govern the 
content.??Traders,?legal  department, communications dept. A 
multidisciplinary group that?can add  value to the publication.
?
*Suggest finding an IMS or IT resource from  within Enron to be assigned to 
this communications  effort.??Database set up for the email addresses, 
technical  issues arise?for?creating the links etc.? Managing an  
e-newsletter in my current position, I can?tell you that a writer/editor  has 
enough to do to compile content.??You want mailings to go off  without any 
glitches.? Or if there are glitches, he or she can?solve  quickly.? What are 
the implications of these mailings on the company's  computer systems?? 
?
*Budget.? Although not a  typical print publication, this effort should have 
a budget.? Graphics,  freelance or contract writing, photography?any special 
software or hardware  needs associated with this effort?? 
?
*Review process.? What is the  review process for?this publication.? Legal 
guidelines??  Corporate guidelines with regards to style, graphics 
etc.??Technical  review of the material for accuracy?? A clear policy should 
be  established?up front for the review process so everyone involved knows 
and  understands their role and responsibilities?towards this communication  
effort.
?
*Have you surveyed what is out in the  marketplace???Gather samples 
of?newsletters that you  like or don't like for discussion purposes.
?
*Measurement/evaluation of the  newsletter.??How?will the effectiveness of 
the  newsletter be measured?? Hits on the website.? Inquiries from  clients?? 
Don't have a quick answer but?some goals should be set to  measure against.
?
*Maintenace of the mailing lists should  reside with the individual groups 
participating in the  newsletter.??Maintenance of the newsletter databases 
should  not be the responsibility of the communications representative.?  ??
?
This sent to you in the spirit of exploring the position further.?  Look 
forward to your feedback.??Thank you for your  consideration.? 
?
Sincerely,
Susan V. Gonzalez
11822 Poplar Creek
Houston, TX? 77077
(281) 497-7185 home
(281) 877-5853 work