Message-ID: <12124477.1075856624758.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Wed, 12 Jul 2000 03:13:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: david.dupre@enron.com
To: vince.kaminski@enron.com
Subject: Our meeting
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: David P Dupre
X-To: Vince J Kaminski
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Kaminski-V
X-FileName: vkamins.nsf

Vince:

I enjoyed meeting you last week to discuss my application to join your group. 
Please keep my inquiry confidential for now.

If selected, I think your group would greatly benefit from my diverse 
skill-set including modeling skills utilizing Excel, Access, and
Bloomberg as well as graphing, statistical, and other quantitative abilities, 
especially in the meteorology field.

I am particularly interested in being able to discover vital information 
which may affect the markets (e.g. pulp/paper, interest rates, weather) as 
well as arriving at a new variable which captures all market variables into 
one which may be followed and forecasted for each of the groups.

Furthermore, I am truly committed to adding value to your group, including 
making significant contributions,
and am sanguine about my ability to ensure that these achievements are 
well-received.

I have met many people at Enron thus far and am able to utilize these 
strategic alliances by knowing who may be able
to assist your group in the quest for information on different projects. By 
accessing information quickly, both internal and 
external to the firm, the group would be able to extraordinarily benefit from 
this diligence  In addition, by seeking greater efficiencies in my work, 
I have been able to be instrumental in accumulating additional 
responsibilities. 

Most importantly, I have the mathematical acumen and insight to ensure the 
continued growth and prosperity of your group.

As a research-oriented individual, I am clearly interested in pursuing a 
position in your  group.
If selected, I would be able to bring my diverse experience, including 
financial modeling and derivatives, from my tenure at
Enron and CIBC World Markets.

I look forward to meeting with select members of your group.

Thanks,
David
3-3528
