Message-ID: <7849895.1075856625586.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Tue, 20 Jun 2000 01:38:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: vince.kaminski@enron.com
To: shanecgreen@earthlink.net
Subject: Re:
Cc: vince.kaminski@enron.com
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=ANSI_X3.4-1968
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
Bcc: vince.kaminski@enron.com
X-From: Vince J Kaminski
X-To: "Shane Green" <shanecgreen@earthlink.net> @ ENRON
X-cc: Vince J Kaminski
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Kaminski-V
X-FileName: vkamins.nsf

Shane,

Thanks for your message.  As a matter of fact, I expected your resume in time
for our summer internship program.

We shall be glad to invite you for an interview. How long "sabbatical" do you 
envisage?

Vince

P.S. Shirley,   please, call Shane to arrange an interview with HR.






"Shane Green" <shanecgreen@earthlink.net> on 06/19/2000 02:14:00 PM
To: <vkamins@enron.com>
cc:  
Subject: 



Dr. Kaminski:
?
You probably won't remember my name, but I am the Ph.D.  student that took 
you back to the airport after your visit to Louisiana State  University 
during the previous academic year.
?
I received my M.S. in Finance in May of last year, and chose  to?remain at 
LSU to work on my Ph.D. At that time, I intended to pursue a  career 
in?teaching and research at a four year college or university.?  In 
part?because of your visit,?and my?primary interest in  normative research, 
my?plans have changed.? While I?still want to  earn my Ph.D.,?I plan to 
pursue a career in research in the private  sector.
?
As you know, Ph.D. programs in financial economics are  designed to train 
future academics.? Not surprisingly, they emphasize  methods to approach the 
types of questions that are of interest to finance  academics.? What did 
surprise me, however, was that these areas of interest  often had little to 
do with what I imagined to be the concerns of practitioners  in the real 
world.? As you mentioned in your discussion, academic  researchers know 
little about what their counterparts in the private sector  
are?doing.?????????????????????????????????????  
?
In light of my objective, I feel I would get the most out of  the remainder 
of my doctoral studies if I took some time off to work in the  private sector 
to see first hand the?types of challenges I can expect to  face as a 
researcher in corporate America.? As my primary interests revolve  around the 
use of derivatives and financial engineering in corporate risk  management, 
Enron, as the leading innovator in these areas, would be an ideal  place to 
learn.? I was wondering if you were aware of any openings at the  company 
that might provide me with the exposure I am looking for.? If there  are no 
such positions or opportunities, any advice or suggestions you could give  
me,?such as whether or not you think such a "sabbatical" (for lack of a  
better term) would be helpful, or information on private sector careers for  
Ph.D.'s would be greatly appreciated.? 
?
I am sending a current copy of my vita as an attachment.?  If you have any 
questions my e-mail address is sgreen@finance.lsu.edu.? Thanks  for your help 
and advice.
?
?
Cordially,
?
?
?
?
Shane Green
?
?
????? 
 - Vita.doc

