Message-ID: <9439290.1075857067743.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Tue, 25 Apr 2000 09:46:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: dgweir@easy-pages.com
To: vince.j.kaminski@enron.com
Subject: 
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=ANSI_X3.4-1968
Content-Transfer-Encoding: quoted-printable
X-From: "dgweir" <dgweir@easy-pages.com>
X-To: <Vince.J.Kaminski@enron.com>
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Kaminski-V
X-FileName: vkamins.nsf

Please add our contact information to your database.  What follows are a
couple of active searches, should you become aware of interested
individuals.


Chief Executive Officer
LOCATION: San Diego, CA
COMPANY: **rates.com
COMPENSATION:  Targeted compensation in the >$200k base range plus extensiv=
e
stock ownership and bonus.
DESCRIPTION:   The Board of Directors of **Rates.com is seeking a dynamic
and experienced executive for the position of CEO of this Pre-IPO Internet
company. The CEO would play a key role in the business strategy of a highly
entrepreneurial and fast-growing company and answer directly to the Board o=
f
Directors. This individual must be smart, highly motivated team leader able
to offer strong business strategies, especially involving the rapid growth
of operations and resulting financial challenges. The CEO must be
expansion-capable and have experience with business start ups, growing
businesses and the ability to get the company to a public offering
The Chief Executive Officer for this 1-year start-up, B2B e-commerce, singl=
e
location company must be able to commercially launch the company in the
energy industry, and ultimately expanding into other market niches while
making this company a market leader in the Internet Rate Comparison market.
**Rates.com is a California C Corporation company with an industry leading
Board of Directors and Advisory Board. The company in the process of
assembling a management team, finalizing the business plan and taking the
rate comparison service to market. The initially targeted electric and
natural gas industries have over $200 billion in annual revenues. Currently=
,
the three largest internet rate comparison companies have little or no
market share in the energy industry.
Possible candidates can come from a variety of experiences, but experience
in starting up an energy company or leading-edge technology company is
critical.
REQUIREMENTS:  The candidate must have 8-15 years of executive management
experience (i.e., CEO, President, Sr. Vice-President, Partner level
Consultancy) in the private sector either with a deregulated energy company=
,
a large consulting or a services oriented firm. Extensive background in
either the energy field, high technology, including telecommunications,
systems software, e-commerce development or e-commerce. Must have a strong
background in business development and building relationships with large
companies. Strong visionary with proven leadership qualities and capable of
building a company. Degree essential.
Computer literate in word processing/budget formats/ and e-mail necessary
group and people skills essential organizational and planning skills a must
over all must be a self-starter and a communicator must be willing to trave=
l
in states as necessary.




Position Title: Director of Acquisitions Department: Corporate Development
Location: DC    Reports to: Vice President, Acquisitions

Position Summary:
The person holding this position serves as a transaction team leader for
large acquisition projects within the Energy Group, performing all
activities and managing all resources necessary to successfully acquire
operating power plants, or gas assets.  Working largely through
self-direction, he or she manages the project team for an assigned project
and establishes and adheres to budgets and schedules.  Due to high deal
flow, the Energy Group needs two Directors of Acquisitions, and has one ope=
n
position.

Principal Duties and Responsibilities:

1. Manages the project team for an assigned project.  Successfully manages
the project through signing of an asset purchase agreement.
2. Manages development of and inputs to, project/proposal economic
projections.  Obtains sign-off on pro forma inputs from appropriate company
officers.
3. Identifies problems and solicits input from appropriate team members
and/or senior management on project issues.  Develops alternative solutions
and assesses the alternatives in the context of project and corporate
objectives.  Chooses and implements the best solutions.
4. Establishes project budgets and schedules and manages expenditures to
budgeted levels.
5. Plans and organizes tasks and short-term goals for the project team
members to ensure the project stays on schedule.  Coordinates activities of
team members (including third parties) from different disciplines to ensure
activities with overlapping disciplinary impacts are performed efficiently.
6. Represents the project and the company in discussions with interested
parties, at lender meetings, etc., and develops appropriate relationships
with individuals involved.
7. Identifies key issues associated with an acquisition and its potential
=01&fatal flaws.=018
8. Assists in maintaining relations with investment banks and legal firms t=
o
assure that company receives all appropriate =01&deal flow.=018
9. Leads process of obtaining company's approval for acquisitions and
coordinates requirements with the corporate office as to due diligence
scope, structuring issues, risk assessment, financial analysis, etc.
10. Reviews, edits and assists in negotiating asset purchase and related
agreements.
11. Assists in the timely closing of transactions.
12. Maintains a working knowledge of regional electric market and sub-marke=
t
pricing, load shape, resource mix and transmission characteristics.

Required Job-Related Qualifications:

1. BA/BS required; advanced degree in business or related field preferred.
2. Strong analytical skills, experience in building and managing pro formas=
.
3. Substantial record of successfully managing and participating in the
development or acquisition and financial closing of independent power
projects or merchant plants.
4. Excellent oral and written communication skills.
5. Ability to function in a team environment with multiple and changing
priorities, as either leader or team member.

Interview with:  Chief Financial Officer
    Vice President, Acquisitions
    Managing Director, Development
    Director, Acquisitions




Asian Sales Manager position.

Selling turbomachinery controls throughout Asia.  The best location for thi=
s
position is in Singapore.  All
candidates for this position should have a proven track record selling
controls in the region.

The Asian Sales Manager will be responsible for growing I&C systems product
line(direct sales)throughout Asia. This will include sales of control
systems through engine and turbine packagers and rebuilders. Company will
also pursue sales directly to end-users with the best candidates being the
oil & gas producers and power companies. The company will emphasize gas
turbine applications including compressor and generator drives. The company
is interested in developing alliances with large users such as ONGC,
Petronos, and Caltex, as well as pursuing the individual retrofits with
energy companies. Retrofit opportunities will not be limited to this
company's machines. The company will retrofit any gas turbine. We will also
retrofit gas or diesel engines.

The company expects sales results and then growth plans for leveraging thes=
e
early successes. As they grow, additional sales personnel may be added and
they will report to the Asian Sales Manager.

Company hot buttons:
1. Familiar with Asian oil & gas and power generation markets.
2. Strong technical understanding of control systems and turbomachinery
applications.
3. Well organized, self-managed individual.
4. Ability to manage and direct other sales people.
5. Ability to work with key customers, to understand their turbomachinery
requirements and communicate I&C solutions.
6. Ability to achieve early sales results and to develop sustained sales
growth.
7. Ability to develop long-term alliances with key customers, as well as,
sales opportunities on individual control retrofit projects.
8. Strong understanding of sales & marketing principles with the ability to
implement these principles.
9. Ability to work well with people of various cultural backgrounds.
10. The Asian Sales Manager will be based in Singapore and report to the
Director of Sales and Marketing, located in Houston, Texas.

An undergraduate degree in Electrical or Mechanical engineering is required=
.
A graduate degree is business is also desirable.

Regards,

Dave Weir, Sr. Managing Partner
IEG,Inc.
215-957-9012 fax. 215-957-1753 or 215-957-6090
website: www.iegsearch.com
EMail: dgweir@iegsearch.com or dgweir@aol.com
Dave Weir, Sr. Managing Partner
IEG,Inc.
215-957-9012 fax. 215-957-1753 or 215-957-6090
website: www.iegsearch.com
EMail: dgweir@iegsearch.com or dgweir@aol.comDave Weir, Sr. Managing Partne=
r
IEG,Inc.
215-957-9012 fax. 215-957-1753 or 215-957-6090
website: www.iegsearch.com
EMail: dgweir@iegsearch.com or dgweir@aol.com