Message-ID: <4282381.1075857069295.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Tue, 8 Feb 2000 06:30:00 -0800 (PST)
From: john.hou@enron.com
To: vince.kaminski@enron.com
Subject: 
Cc: john.hou@enron.com
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
Bcc: john.hou@enron.com
X-From: John Hou
X-To: Vince J Kaminski
X-cc: John Hou
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Kaminski-V
X-FileName: vkamins.nsf

Dr . Kaminski, 


Thank you for giving me an opportunity to talk with you and Zimin.  It's my 
great pleasure to meet  with you 
and your group members.
 
I met Zimin last week. We had a wonderful talk.  After our meeting, I  handed 
in him my current resume.
He may already forwarded my resume to you.  If not, I will be very happy to 
send you a copy.

By talking with you, Zimin  and by attending your presentation yesterday at 
UH,  I find I am really interesting the 
fields that you are working on .  I am deeply impressed by the research works 
your team have done and I am 
looking forward  I am able to become one of your members.  I am also looking 
forward  to be able to do researches 
under your guidance.  

I strongly  feel that your research department  provides the kind of jobs and 
environments that I have been looking
for a long time.  My career objective matches your research fields and 
directions.  I believe my training in  mathematics
and computer science will provide me some necessary backgrounds in energy 
risk management  .  I am also sure that 
by working with you,   I can greatly expand my IT skills and experiences.  I 
also can learn tremendously from
 you and your research teams.

Currently after finishing my programing work as an IT spcialist,  I am 
reading John Hull's book and try to catch up necessary
background in Finance and related fields.  I am also readingyour "Managing 
Energy Price Risk" book.   
Thank you for giving me a copy of this book.  

Again, thank you  for giving me this opportunity and I am looking forward to 
working in your team.

John Hou
713-853-1600