Message-ID: <18693603.1075840879432.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Wed, 30 Jan 2002 10:06:41 -0800 (PST)
From: david.forster@enron.com
To: louise.kitchen@enron.com
Subject: FW: Product Name
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Forster, David </O=ENRON/OU=NA/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=DFORSTER>
X-To: Kitchen, Louise </O=ENRON/OU=NA/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=Lkitchen>
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: KITCHEN-L
X-FileName: louise kitchen 2-7-02.pst

Fyi:  Copy of email I sent to Pat O'donnell.

 -----Original Message-----
From: 	Forster, David  
Sent:	Wednesday, January 30, 2002 12:06 PM
To:	'pat.odonnell@ubsw.com'
Subject:	Product Name

Pat,

I remain concerned that we should proactively promote a short product name.

I realise this is not consistent with Group's position.

Some considerations:

- If we do not promote a short name, the market will do it for us. Noone is going to refer to the system as "The online trading platform for UBS Warburg Energy". They will find something 4 syllables or less.

- This is a system which had a very high profile and unique identity within the industry. Downtime is reported in the trade press. Numerous general news articles referenced it. Whether we want the "Product" to have a unique identity or not, it will have one, and we should control it to the extent we can.

- EnronOnline was more than just a means of doing business with Enron. It was recognised by many as a kind of "marketplace", which provided a unique combination of liquidity, pricing and ease of transaction. The market will look to our new system as the replacement for this marketplace and the marketplace needs a name.

- Some segments of the market are already starting to use their own short form during informal conversation. They have selected "UBSOL". As discussed, I think it is in our best interest to aggresively provide the market with a replacement for this. To do otherwise means we will shortly be stuck with this name and it will be very difficult to "unstick".

- There are significant volumes of online and offline documentation (Help, etc.) for which it is helpful to have a name by which to refer to the collection of people, processes, internal trading tools, reporting applications, administration applications, and website. It is important to note that the website, though the most visible part, is only one part of the overall "system" which was EnronOnline.

I understand how an extremely large corporation such as UBS would be concerned with the proliferation of product names, which could be confusing when looking at all of them on a single list. However, many of our customers will have exposure to only a few UBS products, and for the individuals at those companies, most will have exposure to only one: The trading system. 

Dave