Message-ID: <28133961.1075840878845.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Tue, 5 Feb 2002 08:10:54 -0800 (PST)
From: pat.odonnell@ubsw.com
To: louise.kitchen@enron.com
Subject: FW: Re-cap of branding decisions
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Pat.ODonnell@ubsw.com@ENRON
X-To: Kitchen, Louise </O=ENRON/OU=NA/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=LKITCHEN>
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: KITCHEN-L
X-FileName: louise kitchen 2-7-02.pst

don't know if we can change now....:-)

but I think we got most of what we want.

later

-----Original Message-----
From: Hope, Penny
Sent: Tuesday, February 05, 2002 9:17 AM
To: ODonnell, Pat; Meinel, Matt; Baumann, Heidi; Mills, Ursula;
Petrie,
James; Robinson, Claudia; David.Forster; 'kal.shah@enron.com'; Keily,
Ruth; Lloyd, Andrew-D; Mitchell, Nikki
Cc: McGreevy, Terri; Hollis, Amanda
Subject: Re-cap of branding decisions



All

In order to be clear about all the discussions that have taken place
on
the brand issues I've been asked to summarise the final decisions:

1. Website: the url is www.ubswenergy.com

2. E-mail address: firstname.lastname@ubswenergy.com

3. Company marketing name: UBS Warburg Energy

4. Company legal entity name: UBS Warburg Energy LLC

The first three are to be reviewed after approximately 6 months.

Notes:

1. When referring to the new company in text, the website should
always
be referred to as 'UBSWenergy.com' and not just UBSWenergy - case can
be either upper or lower

2. The corporate identity rules of UBS Warburg are to be followed
when
producing any company material either for internal or external use.

The above was agreed with Heidi Baumann, Pat O'Donnell and John
Costas.

Rgds

Penny






Visit our website at http://www.ubswarburg.com

This message contains confidential information and is intended only
for the individual named.  If you are not the named addressee you
should not disseminate, distribute or copy this e-mail.  Please
notify the sender immediately by e-mail if you have received this
e-mail by mistake and delete this e-mail from your system.

E-mail transmission cannot be guaranteed to be secure or error-free
as information could be intercepted, corrupted, lost, destroyed,
arrive late or incomplete, or contain viruses.  The sender therefore
does not accept liability for any errors or omissions in the contents
of this message which arise as a result of e-mail transmission.  If
verification is required please request a hard-copy version.  This
message is provided for informational purposes and should not be
construed as a solicitation or offer to buy or sell any securities or
related financial instruments.