Message-ID: <27925309.1075856629931.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Fri, 6 Apr 2001 05:11:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: erisks_news@email.erisks.com
To: vkamins@enron.com
Subject: ERisk Essentials
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=ANSI_X3.4-1968
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: ERisk <eRisks_news@email.eRisks.com>
X-To: vkamins@enron.com
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Kaminski-V
X-FileName: vkamins.nsf

		
?		www.erisk.com
		What's  New at ERisk.com - 06  April 2001

Weekly  Review	This  week's economic, banking and P_insurance news, from an 
enterprise  risk management perspective. Read it here  ...
	
	
Analysis	
	? How the New Economy aided and abetted the economic  downturn
	? State or federal regulation? Banks and  insurers slug it out
	? Credit risk concentration hits the  interest-rate swaps market 
	
Feature	Why do some ART products fare better than others? Credit  insurance, 
for example, has taken off while the securitisation of catastrophe  risk has 
struggled. In this feature,  Sanford Bernstein analysts Todd Bault and 
Timothy Connor suggest that the  secret of success lies in matching different 
kinds of risk to their appropriate  owners - and that insurers' expertise in 
handling basis risk makes this a  potentially lucrative market. Also still 
available: Penny Cagan on  Basle's treatment of operational risk.
	
	
iConference  	
	Looking for an overview of economic capital? Attend our iConference 
"Practical Considerations  in Measuring Economic Capital" on April 11. Read  
more about it and  register for the iConference. 
	Still available: Slides and a summary of the  Credit Derivatives iConference. 
	
Links	Need to find educational material  on the Web? Looking for a software 
vendor, a regulator or an exchange? Find  hundreds of links to other risk 
management sites and resources in our Links  section

		
		
		
		
		
		The  ERisk Essentials is published every Friday by ERisk.com.  
		To subscribe to this newsletter, please register  on our website. 
		To unsubscribe, access your  account. Your username is the email address 
where you received this  message.
		To be reminded of your password, or to reset it, follow this  link. 
		