Message-ID: <8085838.1075840856144.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Wed, 27 Jun 2001 20:04:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: mlbray@aol.com
To: louise.kitchen@enron.com
Subject: (no subject)
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=ANSI_X3.4-1968
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: MLBray@aol.com <MLBray@aol.com@ENRON>
X-To: louise.kitchen <louise.kitchen@enron.com>
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: KITCHEN-L
X-FileName: louise kitchen 2-7-02.pst

Ms. Kitchen

My name is Matthew Bray and I would be interested in speaking to you about
any potential commercial development opportunities that might be available in
your group at Enron. I have been consulting for several energy companies over
the last nine months but am now seeking a full time commercial development
position with a leading energy company. I believe my gas and power
development experience, knowledge of all sectors in the energy value chain
and ability to secure customers would allow me to contribute to the bottom
line success of your group.

Enclosed below is a copy of my resume. Please let me know if you would like
to discuss in more detail. I can be reached at this email address or by phone
at (512) 346-4974. I look forward to talking to you soon.

Regards
Matt Bray


MATTHEW L. BRAY
6000 Shepherd Mountain Cove #212
Austin, TX 78730
Phone: (512) 346-4974
Email: MLBray@aol.com

PROFILE
Energy professional with established track record in natural gas/power
trading, pipeline/storage project development, long-term supply marketing and
business development.  Demonstrated success in capital raising, strategic
partnering and M&A.  Ability to initiate and complete projects, acquire new
customers, negotiate strategic alliances and produce bottom line results in a
fast paced, evolving environment.

EXPERIENCE
Have spent the last seven months consulting for various energy and technology
companies.  Consulting projects have included:
? Cost/benefit, competitive and economic analysis of the deregulated ERCOT
power market for electricity marketer
? Market research and writing business plan for Americas Development Group
(ADG), a partnership between US/Mexico Chamber of Commerce and Organization
of American States. ADG is pursuing and building energy infrastructure
development projects throughout Latin America
? Assisting energy company with financing and development of natural gas
storage facility

Founder, President and CEO                                  1999 to 2000
EnergyStorehouse.com., Houston, Texas

Initiated and pursued business opportunity to develop and launch online
auction site for surplus equipment in the energy and chemical industries.
Company acquired by EnergyPrism.com in June 2000
? Recruited management team members and Board of Directors
? Secured customer commitments to post equipment upon launch of the
marketplace
? Worked closely with auction service provider to develop and implement
online marketplace
? Developed detailed understanding of energy e-commerce market fundamentals
and business models of potential competitors
? Responsibilities also included devising operations and technology plans and
negotiating revenue sharing agreements with sales channel partners

Manager, Storage and Asset Management                           1998 to 1999
Columbia Energy Group, Houston, Texas
Reporting to Senior Vice President - Trading, hired to manage group with $7
million/year in earnings responsible for optimizing natural gas storage and
pipeline capacity leased throughout North America.
? Coordinated with physical, financial, retail trading groups and asset
management customers to fully maximize storage and pipeline assets
? Developed and implemented financial and marketing strategies for joint
venture with $12 million/year in revenues with Louisiana local distribution
company
? Managed gas supply and storage operations for 8 municipalities located in
Tennessee Valley region
? Identified and negotiated major pipeline and storage asset acquisitions
? Utilized financial instruments including futures, options and swaps to
mitigate commodity price risk

Power Trader                                                1997
Koch Energy Trading, Inc., Houston, Texas
? Performed hourly and next day power trading activities in WSCC, ERCOT, SPP,
ECAR, MAIN and SERC regions
? Reserved and confirmed transmission capacity to capitalize on arbitrage
opportunities
? Analyze domestic power generation requirements to develop short and
long-term trading strategy
? Developed and maintained key business relationships with utilities and
power marketers
Matthew L. Bray - Page 2


Texaco Natural Gas  Inc.
                                            1994 to 1998
Possessed various management positions in Texaco's natural gas trading,
business development and natural gas pipeline subsidiaries.

Manager, Gulf Coast Marketing, Houston, Texas                July 1997 to
June 1998
Managed group with $4 million/year in earnings providing natural gas trading
and marketing services in the Gulf Coast region.  Accomplishments included
assisting with successful joint venture negotiation with electronic trading
company, drafting business plan to develop marketing, financial and risk
strategy for three year period and managed successful development and
implementation of new natural gas scheduling system.  Responsibilities also
included negotiating long-term storage contracts with natural gas storage
facilities in the Gulf Coast region.

 Marketing Representative, Calgary, Alberta, Canada                      May
1996 to March 1997
International relocation to open satellite marketing office for new $40
million natural gas storage facility in Canada.  Responsible for employee
staffing, system implementation, marketing storage services and initiating
customer relationships.  Negotiated long and short-term storage agreements
with producers, marketers and utilities and pursued joint venture/strategic
alliance opportunities in Western Canada.

 Business Development Representative, Houston, Texas               Jan 1994
to May 1996    Position responsibilities included increasing physical
capacity and utilization of company owned natural gas pipeline assets.
Negotiated completion of three pipeline interconnects, development of natural
gas compressor facility and successful acquisition of natural gas gathering
system.  Served as primary customer contact on natural gas pipeline
transportation rates and operational issues.  Negotiated long-term firm
natural gas pipeline transportation agreements with estimated revenue of $12
million.


PERSONAL PROFILE

EDUCATION:      UNIVERSITY OF HOUSTON, Master of Business Administration -1999
            UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS AT AUSTIN, Bachelor of Business Administration
                 Management - 1993

ACTIVITIES:     Founding Member - Americas Development Group
Fall 1996 Texaco Outstanding Contributor Award
Downtown Houston Association - Emerging Leaders Committee
National Energy Services Association
Houston Energy Association
Delta Tau Delta Fraternity
Gulf Coast United Way Volunteer
Central Texas Alzheimer's Association
Certified Scuba Diver
Golf, Racquetball, Tennis