Message-ID: <14886705.1075840857177.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Fri, 25 May 2001 00:31:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: ed.mcmichael@enron.com
To: louise.kitchen@enron.com
Subject: PEP for Jean Mrha
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Ed McMichael <Ed McMichael/ENRON@enronXgate@ENRON>
X-To: Louise Kitchen <Louise Kitchen/LON/ECT@ECT>
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: KITCHEN-L
X-FileName: louise kitchen 2-7-02.pst

I regret to decline to review Jean. I went through the form for her but was not able to provide nearly enough meaningful feedback to justify.  I have worked a lot with Jean over time, but mostly indirectly this period.  We have had occasional interaction (a couple brief meetings and a couple phone conversations) about the development and status of the wellhead book.  In addition, she did attend one of the inter-departmental wellhead book meetings that I hosted and we have collaborated on Analysts/Associates, but I have not really worked closely with her this period.  She may feel that we have worked more together that we have based on the time I have spent with John Grass and others related to the wellhead book, but my direct interaction with her has been minimal.

On the positive side, she has been very helpful by identifying good Analysts/Associates for me.  She thinks highly of gas structuring as a rotation opportunity and she is one of my best advocates with the Analysts/Associates.  She worked with me to let me take Kelli Little (Assoc) when some of the deals she was working on were put on hold.  Furthermore, she has forwarded resumes and/or had individuals contact me several times this period.

On the negative side, I am not sure why she seemingly let John Grass struggle so long in the development of the wellhead book.  I know she championed the idea and sold the idea to the office of the chair, but from my perspective she gave the ball to John and turned her attention too quickly to other opportunities.  The wellhead book is John's responsibility, but it ultimately rests with her.  With John's relatively short time in ENA and his lack of network, she could have aided in giving him more direction and support  from the outset.  To her credit she seems more engaged lately, especially with the Producer 1 initiative.   

I hope that helps.  I would be happy to answer any questions you may have or discuss further as necessary.

Regards,
Ed

PS.  Congratulations on the birth of your baby!  I hope you are enjoying the time off.

 