Message-ID: <24169794.1075840857934.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Mon, 30 Apr 2001 17:18:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: avril.forster@enron.com
To: louise.kitchen@enron.com
Subject: Time Reporting for Non-Exempt Employees - POLICY
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Avril Forster <Avril Forster/Corp/Enron@ENRON>
X-To: Louise Kitchen <Louise Kitchen/HOU/ECT@ECT>
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: KITCHEN-L
X-FileName: louise kitchen 2-7-02.pst

Hi Louise,
I was cleaning out my e-mails since we're migrating over to Outlook from Lotus Notes and came across the following...it reminded me of a certain highly paid admin...It was good to see you on Sat, best of luck for the remaining of the week!

Avril


With the consolidation of several units under Enron Net Works, we would like to remind everyone of the Time Reporting Policy for non-exempt employees to ensure that we have a consistent and fair application of the Policy:

Employees are expected to begin work promptly at their regularly scheduled starting time and manage their work time productively.  Each full-time employee is expected to work a minimum of 8 hours per day and 40 hours per week.  Non-exempt employees are to receive pay for overtime hours worked consistent with Company policy and law.  Supervisors should ensure that overtime is approved in advance and properly reported for non-exempt workers.  Supervisors should also be notified in a timely fashion in the event a non-exempt employee will be out ill, etc.  It would also be helpful if the non-exempt employee contacted their administrative back-up to ensure adequate departmental coverage.

As a general rule, non-exempt employees should not be working at home to "make-up" time missed at work during the week, nor should they be accumulating overtime hours by working at home.  All non-exempt employees should document time missed from work as either sick time, vacation time or personal time with or without pay.  Please note that all time being documented as personal time with pay requires supervisor approval.  Personal time with pay should be used in only limited circumstances.  Any employee documenting more than 16 hours of personal time in a calendar year, will require prior approval from the Division VP and the VP of Human Resources to ensure policy compliance.

The designation, "Family Time with Pay" is to be used in instances of time off for the death of an immediate family member, or as otherwise indicated by policy.  Hours missed during the day for personal appointments, etc. may be made up within the same week and should be documented accordingly on the timesheets.

All assistant timesheets should be approved by the Administrative Coordinator or lead in the group and should be signed each pay period by the employee and the immediate supervisor.  If there is no lead in the group, then the signed timesheets should be forwarded each pay period to either Executive Assistant in the Office of the Chairman.

Thank you for your adherence to this policy.
