Message-ID: <11138537.1075840853564.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Fri, 14 Sep 2001 15:05:16 -0700 (PDT)
From: billy.lemmons@enron.com
Subject: Analyst / Associate Program Update Breakfast Meeting
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Lemmons Jr., Billy </O=ENRON/OU=NA/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=WLEMMON>
X-To: 
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: KITCHEN-L
X-FileName: louise kitchen 2-7-02.pst


Many exciting things have happened since I last emailed you about the Program.  Today, I will highlight the results of the recent Program Survey and discuss several initiatives we have underway.  I also want to invite each of you to attend one of four meetings we've scheduled to discuss the information below in greater detail, and to provide you with an opportunity for Q&A.

Program Survey
I want thank everyone who participated in the Program Survey a few weeks ago.  As promised,  I also want to communicate the results of the feedback you provided.  In short, we've made progress over the past 5 months in a number of areas, but there are still things that we can improve on.  Below are some summary points about the Survey, and how the results compare to the last Program Survey in October 2000.

We surveyed all members of the Western Hemisphere Program, business unit supervisors and PRC reps, and summer interns. 
Response rates of about 40% were consistent with last year.
When asked about Overall Satisfaction with the Program, "Favorable" responses from Associates improved to 58% from 27%, and from Analysts improved to 46% from 41%.  "Unfavorable" responses also improved for both groups (Associates to 8% from 41% last year, and Analysts to 13% from 29%).
Similar improvements were noted in the responses from the Business Units.  When asked about Overall Satisfaction with the Program, "Favorable" responses improved to 69% from 49%, and "Unfavorable" responses improved to 3% from 24%.
Areas for Improvement most frequently mentioned included Rotation Management, Compensation, Performance Review Process, and Communication.  We have activities in progress to continue improvement in each of these areas.

Initiatives  
Below are some highlights of several things that will "roll-out" over the next few weeks, and many of them reflect your input to the Program through Survey feedback, as well as meetings that I've had with many of you.

A new, online Rotation Information and Management System is in development and should be ready for delivery during the 4th quarter.
Compensation packages have been revised for the current recruiting season.  An equity adjustment for current members of the Program is set for February 2002, several months ahead of the new class start dates.  
We made significant changes to the PRC process at mid-year.  At this time we are working with HR on further improvements which will be implemented for the year-end process. 
On the communication front several things are happening.  The Associate / Analyst Program newsletter will return later this month.  The format will be a concise email similar to the EnTouch newsletter used by Wholesale, and Global Flash in Europe.  A new external website for the Program was launched last week (access it via www.enron.com <http://www.enron.com>).  A new internal website is expected to be operational by the end of September.  We are also planning eSpeak and Brown Bag sessions this fall to talk in greater detail about things like Recruiting, the PRC Process, and other topics of interest.  We will also continue the pizza lunch schedule.
An updated social and community service activity schedule has been completed, and we are working on a more integrated approach to training and development for the Program. 

Program Meetings
I invite each of you to select and attend one of the meetings listed below, where I will discuss in greater detail the information I've highlighted above.  Each meeting will be held in EB 5C2, and will run from 7:30 to 8:30 am.  A continental breakfast will be provided.  Because space in this room is limited, pls rsvp to my assistant Maxine Levingston by the dates listed below.  Maxine can be reached by email at Maxine.E.Levingston@ENRON.com <mailto:Maxine.E.Levingston@ENRON.com>.

Friday, Sept 21   7:30-8:30 am   EB 5C2    (rsvp no later than 12:00 noon, Thursday Sept 20)
Tuesday, Sept 25   7:30-8:30 am   EB 5C2   (rsvp no later than 12:00 noon, Monday Sept 24)
Wednesday, Sept 26   7:30-8:30 am   EB 5C2   (rsvp no later than 12:00 noon, Tuesday Sept 25)
Tuesday, Oct. 9     7:30-8:30 am EB 5C2 (rsvp no later than 12:00 noon, Monday, Oct. 8)

I look forward to seeing each of you over the next few weeks.

Best regards,
Billy Lemmons
Vice President, Associate / Analyst Program