Message-ID: <16077720.1075856051731.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Fri, 13 Oct 2000 02:58:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: d.hall@enron.com
To: joe.gold@enron.com, gregor.baumerich@enron.com, paul.mead@enron.com
Subject: CP Follow-up
Cc: sally.beck@enron.com
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
Bcc: sally.beck@enron.com
X-From: D Todd Hall
X-To: Joe Gold, Gregor Baumerich, Paul Mead
X-cc: Sally Beck
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Beck-S
X-FileName: sbeck.nsf

I am writing you in order to report the latest developments in relation to my 
visit in September.  I forwarded the attached file to James New and Mike 
Jordan several weeks ago and had hoped to discuss it with them.  I have had 
no response and, therefore, I assume that they agree with the direction that 
was laid out in the departure meeting (Sept. 15) with Gregor, Paul, and Risk 
personnel.

The three areas addressed in the report are as follows:

Pool Book P&L Split
EnPower Structure Modification
Transmission Valuation

Pool Book P&L Split
I have spoken to Anthony MacDonald about the progress and as I understand, he 
has offered to devote time in order to inform James and Coralie Evans about 
the underlying problem.

EnPower Structure Modification
Paul can certainly give you a more detailed understanding as to the Legal 
Entity decision process and amount of rework time that is required of your 
Risk and Confirmation groups.  I have discussed this problem with Zhiyong Wei 
(Houston's EnPower support) in order to inform him of the situation and Paul 
mentioned that he has also spoken with Brian Hudson.

Transmission
As of my last communication with Houston IT, the testing was almost 
complete.  At the departure meeting mentioned above, we considered valuation 
of transmission as a spread-option to be Plan A and further agreed upon a 
Plan B and C.  The report details the operational risk involved in valuing 
transmission by using the Forwards deal type in EnPower.

Since I have communicated with James and Mike and now with the 3 of you, I 
have completed my responsibilities on this project.  We have now formalized a 
direction with backup plans and I would encourage testing by the London 
office to ensure that what meets the West Power desk's needs will also 
address yours. If you need to further discuss this report, feel free to call 
or set up a meeting. 


Regards,


Todd Hall

