Message-ID: <27856481.1075855896095.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Mon, 26 Jun 2000 15:49:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: bryce.baxter@enron.com
To: susan.harrison@enron.com, sally.beck@enron.com, lisa.csikos@enron.com, 
	rita.wynne@enron.com, melissa.ratnala@enron.com, pam.boxx@enron.com, 
	katherine.kelly@enron.com
Subject: SAP A/R A/P Aging Report
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Bryce Baxter
X-To: Susan Harrison, Sally Beck, Lisa Csikos, Rita Wynne, Melissa K Ratnala, Pam B Boxx, Katherine L Kelly
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Beck-S
X-FileName: sbeck.nsf

Tonight Kris and I met with the SAP team about the critical issues we 
discussed in the meeting this morning.  

As far as Xref1 (coordinator) and Xref2 (physical vs. financial flag) fields 
go, it appears that we are getting what we have to have in order to go live 
7/1.  Rena was working on a spec (the OSS that was discussed) that would 
automatically populate these 2 fields.  However, the test was unsuccessful.  
These two fields are being opened up for netting, so we can input them 
manually when netting.  I believe we need to pursue the auto fill post 7/1, 
but the first priority is having a place to put the data.

As far as settlement period is concerned, we are probably going to get a 
hybrid of what we want at this time.  The SAP team does appear to have 
appropriate resources working on this issue.  For data created in SAP, I am 
more comfortable that the data is being captured on the income statement side 
of the entry, and the SAP folks now seem to think they can link over to it to 
get the settlement data.  For data converted, we will not be able to get the 
settlement period in the same manner.  The offsetting entry in conversion is 
to a dummy conversion account rather than an income statement account.  The 
dummy account doesn't carry the settlement date.  Another issue is related to 
the indicator to let us know if an invoice has had cash applied or 