Message-ID: <5962166.1075849860135.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Wed, 13 Dec 2000 07:44:00 -0800 (PST)
From: kathy.kokas@enron.com
To: sally.beck@enron.com, wes.colwell@enron.com
Subject: SAP feedback followup
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Kathy Kokas
X-To: Sally Beck, Wes Colwell
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: BECK-S
X-FileName: sbeck.nsf

Last week y'all asked us to follow up with several key individuals within the 
ENA group to see how it's going with SAP.  We were not to give any "hints"; 
just ask some open-ended (but probing) questions.  I'm attaching all the 
responses (Georgeann directed us to Greg W ).  I don't see anything alarming 
or red-hot -- I just hope they were being totally candid and honest with 
us!!  Overall I would categorize them as normal support issues around the 
areas of needing some spot "1-on-1" training for users, more experience in 
overall information retrieval, editing of some reports, our security process 
and the difficulty of getting information from various and sundry databases 
(since SAP is interfaced) to get the full picture.

We have passed all these items on to the appropriate Solution Mgr, so that 
they can specifically address them.

As I think I mentioned several months ago we had complaints about 
nonresponsiveness (calls not being returned, being passed around alot, etc).  
Hopefully we've turned the corner there.

Please let me know if there are other areas you'd like us to address (as we 
discussed), otherwise we will continue to try to keep our finger on the 
pulse.  And please let me know who our contact person from ENA should be.


Thanks,

KK

 




Mary Sloan
12/13/2000 07:44 AM
To: Kathy Kokas/Corp/Enron@ENRON
cc: Rebecca Miles/Corp/Enron@ENRON 

Subject: ENA Summary

Kathy,

Please find the highlights below from my ENA customer meetings:

Bryce Baxter

Pleased overall with the support provided by the ISC

Small issues voiced by Bryce, not strong sources of contention :
Feels the response time does not happen with 'lightning speed', but works 
fine once they agree to a deadline with Pamela LeBrane
Zcash specification changes delayed due to errors identified by both groups, 
but they are still moving forward
Payment runs are generated early on occassion and it is tough to cancel a 
payment (they are blocking all payments now to avoid this issue)
Unify to SAP interface - files are not being picked up at least once a week 
(certain files 'drop off'); Mary Tyler Marz (ENA) and Teresa Mira (ISC) are 
working on this issue 

Leslie Reeves
Pleased overall with the support provided by the ISC

Areas Leslie would like assistance from the ISC:
Further editing on reports; understanding what information is available and 
how they can extract the information from SAP
Further training (coaching sessions) by members of the ISC Solution Teams to 
help with the following areas:
How to pull data from SAP (data mining)
Explanation of how to find all the pieces required to complete their monthly 
reconciliation process (balancing cost centers, reconciling the P&L to the G/L
Explanation of the interface reconciliation process for financial out of 
balances
Explanation of the steps required for new accounts, business areas, cost 
centers, allocation process (needs to fully understand the process in SAP)
Follow up with Debbie Brackett in Credit to determine if she is receiving the 
credit information from SAP in a timely manner
I told Leslie that I would follow up with Susan B. and Brandee and ask them 
to call her directly.  Leslie would like to meet with each of them and then 
determine the correct individuals on her team to become involved in the 
process.

Both Bryce and Leslie were very appreciative of the customer focused 
attention from the ISC.  They both thought it was great that we scheduled 
time to visit with them and understand their questions/issues.

Please let me know if you have any questions.

Mary


---------------------- Forwarded by Rebecca Miles/Corp/Enron on 12/12/2000 
03:09 PM ---------------------------
   
	
	
	From:  Rebecca Miles                           12/12/2000 03:08 PM
	

To: Greg Whiting/Corp/Enron@ENRON
cc:  

Subject: Feedback for the ISC

Greg,

Thank you for taking time to meet with me today about the ISC and SAP.  I 
appreciated your explanations and your feedback.  Please see if I have 
captured the main points below.  If so, no need to reply.  If not, please 
provide corrections or elaborations.  

I will talk with Sheila and Brandee about the best course of action to get 
Laura Scott's feedback about the issues in Canada.  I'll also check on the 
status of Hyperion.

I passed along your comments about Michael Gilmore to both Michael and his 
manager Vince Cacaro.  Both were pleased to receive positive customer 
feedback.

Regards,
Rebecca

----------------------

ENA's (Financial) SAP "Wish List"

Earlier inter-company cutoffs in month-end close, to facilitate the overall 
close process.
Clarity around the status of Hyperion -- will it be here beyond the end of 
the year?  If so, will the process for mapping between FI/CO and Hyperion be 
addressed?
Getting all the information for our customers into the same repository.  Brio 
should be the answer to many of our issues, as it should ultimately integrate 
data from the Tag database (ERMS), Empower, Unify, CPI, and Solark.  
A different type or level of support during month-end close, at least through 
1Q 2001.  In order of criticality, the issues/needs to be addressed are:
security (making sure people have the correct security and have it prior to 
month-end close)
cost center & profit center set-up (ultimately, centralized set-up is the 
right thing, but the process during close needs work)
reporting (quicker/better access to the right data post close)
