Message-ID: <33110125.1075855896549.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Tue, 7 Mar 2000 08:51:00 -0800 (PST)
From: melissa.becker@enron.com
To: enron.council@enron.com, michael.sullivan@enron.com, 
	wade.stubblefield@enron.com, cynthia.morrow@enron.com, 
	wes.colwell@enron.com, harry.walters@enron.com, 
	john.paskin@enron.com, kent.castleman@enron.com, 
	carol.howes@enron.com, elaine.schield@enron.com, 
	jan.johnson@enron.com, wanda.labaume@enron.com, 
	carolyn.barrett@enron.com, mark.lindsey@enron.com, 
	kathy.kokas@enron.com, greg.nikkel@enron.com, greek.rice@enron.com, 
	kim.lesley@enron.com, susan.bellinghausen@enron.com, 
	biren.kumar@enron.com
Subject: update on various SAP/financial issues
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Melissa Becker
X-To: ENRON APOLLO AND BEYOND FINANCIAL COUNCIL, Michael Sullivan, Wade Stubblefield, Cynthia Morrow, Wes Colwell, Harry Walters, John Paskin, Kent Castleman, Carol Howes, Elaine Schield, Jan Johnson, Wanda LaBaume, Carolyn Barrett, Mark E Lindsey, Kathy Kokas, Greg Nikkel, Greek Rice, Kim Lesley, Susan Bellinghausen, Biren Kumar
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Beck-S
X-FileName: sbeck.nsf

The purpose of this message is to update a variety of interested parties on 
the status of several "hot" topics.  I will be very brief, so please inquire 
if you want to know more.  Also, please forward to anyone I may have left off 
this distribution.  I can't remember everyone who attended the various 
meetings last week.

Reporting
Live Users - A number of workshops have been conducted and are scheduled to 
be conducted to help users better understand how to get at information in 
SAP.  APACHI and South America users have had workshops; CALME and EECC are 
scheduled, and NEPCO/OEC are being planned.  Please contact me, Greg Nikkel 
or Kim Lesley to find out more on status.  Also, any feedback you have for me 
on the effectiveness of these workshops and suggested next steps will be 
welcomed.
4/1 and 7/1 Go Lives - Susan Bellinghausen and Emitra Nelson and the 
respective representatives from the Business Units are working to make the 
next to go lives smoother with respect to reporting.  Again, any feedback you 
could pass on to me, Kathy Kokas, or Susan regarding suggestions or concerns 
is appreciated.
Long Term Reporting Strategy - We are still looking to identify a lead person 
to head up the long term reporting strategy.  This would involve 
understanding any true reporting gaps, as well as the right processes and 
tools for closing these gaps.  In addition, the right degree of "common" and 
business unit specific reporting needs to be defined, and the degree to which 
reporting solutions are function-specific or cross functional (e.g., 
financial, HR, procurement, projects).

Close/Consolidations
Bob Butts and Jan Johnson have taken point to head up a group to review the 
consolidation and close process to determine how/when we get the process 
optimized.  Susan Bellinghausen has followed up with Bob to schedule the 
requested demos of ECCS vs Hyperion functionality.

F/X
I was requested to obtain resources to do a third party review of the overall 
effectiveness of our foreign exchange transactions as they flow through 
different modules.  I am meeting with Kimberley Scardino of Arthur Andersen 
this week to outline the assignement, and have obtained a commitment from SAP 
America to bring appropriate SAP expertise to the review.  We expect to 
complete this review in approximately 3 weeks.  The outcome would be a report 
on whether effective processes and controls are in place for f/x processing, 
and suggestions for how we could more effectively use SAP's capabilities in 
this area.

Customers - please let me know how we're doing.  Thanks!