Message-ID: <15171896.1075855896574.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Fri, 3 Mar 2000 12:16:00 -0800 (PST)
From: greg.nikkel@enron.com
To: enron.council@enron.com
Subject: Status of Reporting
Cc: donald.sullivan@enron.com, rebecca.miles@enron.com, andreas.kraus@enron.com, 
	randy.parman@enron.com, maria.young@enron.com, kim.lesley@enron.com, 
	susan.bellinghausen@enron.com, emitra.nelson@enron.com
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
Bcc: donald.sullivan@enron.com, rebecca.miles@enron.com, andreas.kraus@enron.com, 
	randy.parman@enron.com, maria.young@enron.com, kim.lesley@enron.com, 
	susan.bellinghausen@enron.com, emitra.nelson@enron.com
X-From: Greg Nikkel
X-To: ENRON APOLLO AND BEYOND FINANCIAL COUNCIL
X-cc: Donald Sullivan, Rebecca Miles, Andreas Kraus, Randy Parman, Maria Young, Kim Lesley, Susan Bellinghausen, Emitra Nelson
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Beck-S
X-FileName: sbeck.nsf

At the request of the Financial Council during its last meeting, the COE 
established a SWAT team to assist the business units in SAP reporting.  This 
is the first of weekly status reports that we will provide.

Purpose:  

The team has begun to hold small, interactive workshops with production users 
to:

Show users how to extract data from SAP by:
Using on-line inquiry
Using SAP standard reports and
Creating and modifying a variant
Educate users on the SAP data model and where business unit specific data 
resides in SAP (which module).
Better understand what additional reporting needs users may have.

Team structure: Lead:  Kim Lesley (consultant)
   PS:  Andreas Kraus (COE), Damon Willis (consultant)
   FI/CO:  Randy Parman (COE), Esther Cortes (consultant)
   Education support:  Maria Young (COE)

The structure of the team reflects the initial focus on project and financial 
reports.  It has been balanced to include COE support analysts who will 
provide long-term customer support plus SAP consultants with deep reporting 
knowledge.  We will adjust the team members as appropriate to address the 
material needed by the business units.

In addition to this team, Susan Bellinghausen and Emitra Nelson are 
continuing their efforts on 1/1, 4/1 and 7/1 report development.

Progress:

To date we have held 5 workshops with the Apachi and South American regions.  
These workshops have been evaluated across several criteria.  

On a scale of 1-4 (1 = not at all and 4 = absolutely), the workshops have 
received an average rating of 3.6 in learning reports and increasing comfort 
levels.  The workshops are definitely providing the one on one experience 
that the users are requesting.  They are also seeing and learning (hands on) 
various tools that are available to them to adjust the display of reports, 
query the data from each module and analyze the data.  The sessions are also 
helping to remove some of the fear associated with trying things in a new 
system by providing helpful tricks and hints from the experts.  

However, there is still a concern about increasing the understanding of where 
data resides within SAP.  This is reflected in the average rating to the key 
question "can SAP meet your needs" being only 2.5.  We will further explore 
why the users think this is the case and what they are not getting.   We are 
adjusting our sessions to address this and will continue to seek feedback.  

Upcoming key activities:

Schedule the remaining International region sessions and the EECC home office 
sessions.  We have the participant lists and are working on logistics.
Complete the analysis of the needs of the other business units in production.
Develop a process to follow up on these sessions to monitor the learning 
progress of the users.
Begin to evaluate a cost center reporting tool that Enron Europe has deployed 
in London.


I would like to thank the active participation of the business units in 
identifying and providing the right group of resources to the sessions.  If 
you have any questions or comments, feel free to address them to Melissa 
Becker, Kim Lesley or myself.

Greg