Message-ID: <27150973.1075855896622.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Wed, 23 Feb 2000 05:59:00 -0800 (PST)
From: terrie.wheeler@enron.com
To: richard.lauer@enron.com
Subject: SAP Go-Live Review by AA
Cc: donna.lowry@enron.com, wanda.curry@enron.com, sally.beck@enron.com
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
Bcc: donna.lowry@enron.com, wanda.curry@enron.com, sally.beck@enron.com
X-From: Terrie Wheeler
X-To: Richard Lauer
X-cc: Donna Lowry, Wanda Curry, Sally Beck
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Beck-S
X-FileName: sbeck.nsf

Richard -

Attached is an outline of the involvement we've engaged AA to perform for 
each business unit as they go-live onto SAP.  Please remember that ENA is 
going live onto SAP's "common design" that has already been reviewed by AA 
from a internal controls perspective.  So this attachment outlines those 
items outside of "common design" that Wanda and Sally  probably want covered 
from an ENA perspective.  As a rule of thumb, this proposed scope equates to 
$100k - $150k in fees to AA that is over & above the audit budget.

One word of advice:  Designate a lead within ENA that has the time to stay on 
top of the project, schedule meetings with AA, and coordinate their 
involvement with the SAP team members, e.g. not Wanda or Sally, but at a 
director/manager level at least.  I was the designee for Corp and ensured 
that AA kept the project going.  Also, I worked extensively with the Janet 
Tran, SAP lead director responsible for bringing Corp up.  Some big benefits:
Kept AA out of SAP's hair when things got rough.
Made sure that the SAP team knew what our goals & objectives were, especially 
when we found something that needed fixed before go-live.
Managed that in fact AA provided us a deliverable at the end of the project.

Please review and call if you need other info.  I'd be glad to assist ENA 
too.  I assisted Europe (Naomi Connell) and Int'l cos (John Berggren).  They 
appreciated having a "co-pilot" and we avoided duplication of effort with 
what had already been done for the prior go-lives.  Also, they felt that 
value was rec'd for dollars paid to AA for this work.

Terrie
