Message-ID: <5697182.1075855887433.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Mon, 10 Jul 2000 10:50:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: enron.chairman@enron.com
To: ena.employees@enron.com
Subject: ENA Meeting and Event Expenditure Approval Process
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Enron NA Office of the Chairman
X-To: ENA Employees
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Beck-S
X-FileName: sbeck.nsf

The approval process initiated in 1998 for all meeting and event expenditures 
in excess of $5,000 has enabled ENA to better assess the business value of 
events, accurately track our activities and save money.  These events include 
customer and employee meetings, and trade shows.  

ENA has made some modifications to the process, which are described in this 
memo.

The $5,000 threshold remains in effect for all customer events.  However, the 
threshold for approval for employee meetings and events has been lowered to 
$2,000, and some additional requirements must be met prior to approval.

Please be sure to follow the procedures described below for all meetings and 
events, so we can continue to successfully manage these events.

1) Prior to making any commitments to customers or vendors, all customer 
events with anticipated costs in excess of $5,000, and all employee events 
with anticipated costs in excess of $2,000 must be reviewed by the ENA Public 
Relations (PR) department and approved by the ENA Office of the Chairman

2) The PR department will handle the site search and hotel contract 
negotiations for all such events.  Once this is completed, the PR department 
will work with you to plan and produce your event in its entirety; or they 
can provide as much or as little assistance as you require. The PR department 
will be responsible for helping you achieve the best value for your program 
and ENA.

3) A completed expenditure request form (see attached) and supporting 
documentation is required for each event.  Employee meetings require a 
detailed agenda as part of the event documentation prior to approval.  Please 
submit the completed expenditure request form and documentation to the PR 
department at EB 3642, or work with PR department employees to complete the 
form.

4) After PR review, the expenditure will be submitted to the ENA Office of 
the Chairman for final approval.

Additionally, the PR department can assist in the procurement of tickets for 
various local sporting events and concerts.

If you have any questions regarding this process, would like assistance 
planning an event, or need tickets for a Houston event, please contact Dorie 
Hitchcock in the PR department at (713) 853-6978.

Thank you for your cooperation.

