Message-ID: <9182681.1075839936663.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Mon, 23 Apr 2001 19:04:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: amy.fitzpatrick@enron.com
To: portland.desk@enron.com
Subject: Day Ahead Scheduling Opportunity!
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=ANSI_X3.4-1968
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Amy FitzPatrick <Amy FitzPatrick/PDX/ECT@ECT>
X-To: Portland West Desk <Portland West Desk@ECT>
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: WILLIAMS-W3
X-FileName: 

A position has recently become available on the California desk reporting to Jeff Richter.  Jeff will be holding an information session on Tuesday, April 24, 2001 at 11:00 am in Mt. Hood for anyone who would like to learn more about this opportunity.  Interested candidates should let Amy FitzPatrick know by close of  business on Friday, April 27, 2001.  

Day Ahead Scheduling/Analyst 

This individual is responsible for the physical and financial integrity of Day-Ahead scheduled energy transactions.  This includes managing schedules and preserving Enron's financial rights with non-performing trading counterparties.  

In addition, the Day Ahead scheduler is responsible for some trading of energy in the California ISO and bilateral markets both on Enron Online and through the broker market.  Traders are expected to initiate profitable trades while maintaining an acceptable amount of risk exposure to the company.  The individual is expected to know all settlements requirements and charges related to each type of trade.  The trading role requires interfacing with internal and external customers and other desks within West Power Trading.

The Day Ahead scheduler is required to administer terms of Service Desk contracts, which may include the selling of excess generation and purchasing energy for customer's load requirement.  Also, the individual is responsible for gathering and reporting information on unit outages, transmission line derations and other information that is useful for all West Desk Trading activity.

Job Duties
?	Confirm purchases and sale of power for Enron Power Marketing
?	Create and manage daily position spreadsheet
?	Involves some weekends
?	Work closely with volume, risk management, and dispute settlement groups 
?	Assist in the resolution of volume discrepancies within an ISO market
?	Interface with service and middle marketing customers to resolve Day-Ahead  questions and concerns 
?	Assist in testing and implementation of the scheduling applications
?	Work closely with information technology and fundamentals group to maintain and develop Day-Ahead tools and systems
?	Learn SQL programming to enhance data analysis 

Qualifications
?	Bachelors in Finance, Business, Accounting or related field
?	1 to 2 years of previous power industry experience in WSCC is preferred.
?	Excellent problem solving and communication skills
?	Working knowledge of Excel, Access is required.  Knowledge of Visual Basic and SQL is preferred.
?	Self motivated
?	Detail oriented