Message-ID: <16842840.1075839936806.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Thu, 19 Apr 2001 17:46:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: grace.rodriguez@enron.com
To: portland.desk@enron.com
Subject: Real Time Trading Opportunity!
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=ANSI_X3.4-1968
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Grace Rodriguez <Grace Rodriguez/PDX/ECT@ECT>
X-To: Portland West Desk <Portland West Desk@ECT>
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: WILLIAMS-W3
X-FileName: 


Just a reminder about the info session for the Real Time position, scheduled today in Mt. Hood at 11:00am! 

If you are interested in this position, please remember to let Amy know by close of business on Monday, April 23rd.

---------------------- Forwarded by Grace Rodriguez/PDX/ECT on 04/19/2001 07:51 AM ---------------------------


Amy FitzPatrick
04/17/2001 08:39 AM
To:	Portland West Desk
cc:	 
Subject:	Real Time Trading Opportunity!

A position has recently become available in the Real Time Trading group reporting to Bill Williams.  Bill will be holding an information session on Thursday, April 19, 2001 at 11:00 am in Mt Hood for anyone who would like to learn more about this opportunity.  Interested candidates should let Amy FitzPatrick know by close of business on Monday, April 23, 2001.

Real Time Trading
Real Time Trading is responsible for the physical and financial integrity of prescheduled energy transactions.  This includes managing curtailed schedules and preserving Enron's financial rights with non-performing trading counterparties.  The group is required to maintain records and update databases that explain supply or market interruptions in order to minimize customer billing dispute issues.

In addition, Real Time Trading is responsible for the hourly trading of energy in the California ISO and bilateral markets.  Traders are expected to initiate profitable trades while maintaining an acceptable amount of risk exposure to the company.  The group is expected to know all settlements requirements and charges related to each type of trade.  Each trader is capable of interfacing with customers and responding to internal and external billing inquiries.

Real Time is required to administer terms of Service Desk contracts, which may include the selling of excess generation and purchasing energy for customer's load requirement.  Also, each trader is responsible for gathering and reporting information on unit outages, transmission line derations and other information that is useful for all West Desk Trading activity.

Job Duties
?	Confirm purchases and sale of power for Enron Power Marketing
?	Work closely with volume, risk management, and dispute settlement groups 
?	Aid in preparation of price and deal reports and assist in the resolution of volume/price discrepancies
?	Interface with service and middle marketing customers to resolve real-time questions and concerns 
?	Assist in testing and implementation of FSP and OATI real-time tagging
?	Work closely with information technology and fundamentals group to maintain and develop Real-Time tools and systems

Qualifications
?	Bachelors in Finance, Business, Accounting or related field
?	1 to 2 years of previous power industry experience in WSCC is preferred.
?	Excellent problem solving and communication skills
?	Working knowledge of Excel, Access, Visual Basic and SQL
?	Self motivated
?	Detail oriented
