Message-ID: <29715552.1075839936950.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Mon, 16 Apr 2001 21:37:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: amy.fitzpatrick@enron.com
To: portland.desk@enron.com
Subject: West Power Trading Administrative Assistant Opening
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=ANSI_X3.4-1968
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Amy FitzPatrick <Amy FitzPatrick/PDX/ECT@ECT>
X-To: Portland West Desk <Portland West Desk@ECT>
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: WILLIAMS-W3
X-FileName: 


A position has become available as an Administrative Assistant working in West Power Trading reporting to Debra Davidson.  You will be responsible for the following complex administrative duties.

?	Compose memos, reports and other correspondence from a brief outline, "sketchy" draft or verbal instruction.
?	Greet external clients.
?	Code invoices, process complex expense reports, and manage employee timekeeping through SAP.
?	Make travel/meeting arrangements based on minimal instruction and periodically make independent decisions on details such as travel schedules, mode of 		transportation, and accommodation.
?	Monitor and control filing systems ensuring accuracy and efficient retrieval of data.
?	Occasionally prepare presentations in Microsoft PowerPoint.
?	Provide backup switchboard support for Receptionist during periods of absence.
?	Work closely West Power Trading administrative staff to provide coverage and assistance during periods of employee absences.

The successful candidate will be detail oriented, have good organizational skills, and possess the ability to work in a fast-paced environment with multiple concurrent assignments.  At least 5 years of secretarial/administrative experience and above average communication and interpersonal skills is required.  Excellent typing, proofreading, spelling and grammatical skills, and strong PC skills with Word, Excel, and PowerPoint are a must.  Experience with Access would be beneficial.  The ability to work well within a team environment, identify work priorities and function with very little supervision is essential.

We will be considering internal candidates as well as external candidates for this position.  If you are interested, please let Amy FitzPatrick know no later than close of business on Monday, April 23, 2001.

If you have any questions, please feel free to see Amy or Debra.