Message-ID: <27506061.1075856634598.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Thu, 28 Dec 2000 16:29:00 -0800 (PST)
From: christie.patrick@enron.com
To: michael.rosen@enron.com, cindy.derecskey@enron.com, vince.kaminski@enron.com
Subject: 
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Christie Patrick
X-To: Michael B Rosen, Cindy Derecskey, Vince J Kaminski
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Kaminski-V
X-FileName: vkamins.nsf

Hi Vince!

Please let me know if University Affairs cana ssist in setting up interviews 
to address the EES issues raised by Maheshram.  I'm at Beaver Creek in 
Colorado now, and will be in California making  presentations of various 
cases for completeing my PhD course work Jan 3-4. back in Houston on the 
5th.  If anything needs to get arranged on this before then, please feel free 
to call Mike Rosen at 3-9624.  He will be happy to help.

Thanks Vince!

May your New Year be filled with peace-of-mind, good health and many joys!  
See you there!

Best regards!  --Christie.
---------------------- Forwarded by Christie Patrick/HOU/ECT on 12/29/2000 
12:23 AM ---------------------------


"Vittal, Maheshram" <mvittal@wharton.upenn.edu> on 12/26/2000 10:59:38 AM
To: "'Vince.J.Kaminski@enron.com'" <Vince.J.Kaminski@enron.com>
cc: "'Christie.Patrick@enron.com '" <Christie.Patrick@enron.com> 
Subject: RE: Houston Trip


Dear Vince / Christie,

Thanks for coming to Philadelphia to present an overview of the projects. We 
enjoyed meeting you and your colleagues and look forward to working with 
Enron.  I would also like to pass on my team's appreciation for the dinner as 
well.

We wanted to give you an update on our project and get some feedback and 
additional information prior to our upcoming visit to Houston on January 
19th. Our project is going to be geared to the 3rd option you mentioned.  We 
plan on addressing some part of the Retail Energy Services business.  We are 
considering two options regarding this topic and would like to pursue either
(i)how customers are acquired and recommending new processes and ways to 
serve retail customers, OR
(ii) studying the supply chain and coming up with recommendations for areas 
for further investments.

However, we would like to get some more information on the Retail Energy 
Services before truly scoping the project.  We are also very open to 
suggestions, especially if you had a much broader or different scope in mind; 
so please let us know.

We have not yet reviewed the introductory information received last week, but 
here are the questions we have specific to the Retail Energy Services unit:

Can we look at its overall business plan or a more detailed summary than is 
in the annual report?
What is the pricing philosophy/overall structure?
Who are the customers and how are they acquired?
What would the customers be doing if they did not work with Enron?
What are the international expansion plans and capabilities?
Is there any important regulatory summary information we can have?

If this information is not already covered in the review material you sent, 
will you be able recommend other sources where we may find such information?

After we have reviewed the material sent to us recently, we may want to 
schedule a phone call with you and/or one of your colleagues directly 
involved in the Retail Energy Services business.  I would like to call you in 
the new year to discuss this further.  In the meantime, please feel free to 
call me at (215) 546-9416 if you need any information.

Regards,
Retail Energy Services Tiger Team
Ram
Dennis
Jason
Omar
Steve
Clay


