Message-ID: <14961980.1075856634620.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Tue, 26 Dec 2000 03:59:00 -0800 (PST)
From: mvittal@wharton.upenn.edu
To: vince.j.kaminski@enron.com
Subject: RE: Houston Trip
Cc: christie.patrick@enron.com
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
Bcc: christie.patrick@enron.com
X-From: "Vittal, Maheshram" <mvittal@wharton.upenn.edu>
X-To: "'Vince.J.Kaminski@enron.com'" <Vince.J.Kaminski@enron.com>
X-cc: "'Christie.Patrick@enron.com '" <Christie.Patrick@enron.com>
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Kaminski-V
X-FileName: vkamins.nsf

Dear Vince / Christie,

Thanks for coming to Philadelphia to present an overview of the projects. We 
enjoyed meeting you and your colleagues and look forward to working with 
Enron.  I would also like to pass on my team's appreciation for the dinner as 
well.

We wanted to give you an update on our project and get some feedback and 
additional information prior to our upcoming visit to Houston on January 
19th. Our project is going to be geared to the 3rd option you mentioned.  We 
plan on addressing some part of the Retail Energy Services business.  We are 
considering two options regarding this topic and would like to pursue either
(i)how customers are acquired and recommending new processes and ways to 
serve retail customers, OR
(ii) studying the supply chain and coming up with recommendations for areas 
for further investments.

However, we would like to get some more information on the Retail Energy 
Services before truly scoping the project.  We are also very open to 
suggestions, especially if you had a much broader or different scope in mind; 
so please let us know.

We have not yet reviewed the introductory information received last week, but 
here are the questions we have specific to the Retail Energy Services unit:

Can we look at its overall business plan or a more detailed summary than is 
in the annual report?
What is the pricing philosophy/overall structure?
Who are the customers and how are they acquired?
What would the customers be doing if they did not work with Enron?
What are the international expansion plans and capabilities?
Is there any important regulatory summary information we can have?

If this information is not already covered in the review material you sent, 
will you be able recommend other sources where we may find such information?

After we have reviewed the material sent to us recently, we may want to 
schedule a phone call with you and/or one of your colleagues directly 
involved in the Retail Energy Services business.  I would like to call you in 
the new year to discuss this further.  In the meantime, please feel free to 
call me at (215) 546-9416 if you need any information.

Regards,
Retail Energy Services Tiger Team
Ram
Dennis
Jason
Omar
Steve
Clay
