Message-ID: <2601300.1075856632063.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Mon, 9 Apr 2001 01:11:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: christie.patrick@enron.com
To: weigelt@wharton.upenn.edu
Subject: thanks
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Christie Patrick
X-To: weigelt@wharton.upenn.edu
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Kaminski-V
X-FileName: vkamins.nsf

Hi Keith!

Thanks so much for your additional thoughts, which I will definitely pass on 
to our business units.

As for your nephew, please have him send his resume to me.  I'll be happy to 
see what I can do.

Again, on behalf of Enron and everyone involved in the project, especially 
Vince and I and Ken Parkhill, we had a great and informative experience with 
the entire Tiger Project.

Best regards!

--Christie.
---------------------- Forwarded by Christie Patrick/HOU/ECT on 04/09/2001 
07:15 AM ---------------------------


Weigelt <Weigelt@wharton.upenn.edu> on 04/06/2001 04:40:10 PM
To: "'christie.patrick@enron.com'" <christie.patrick@enron.com>
cc:  

Subject: thanks


Christie;

I wanted to send a short note to express my thanks to Enron, and give some
additional thoughts about the Enron presentation.  Both students and staff
enjoyed our interaction with Enron.  We hope Enron got as much from the
project as we did.

I also had some additional thoughts about EnronOnline.

- During the presentation, the students referred to a market's "critical
mass".  However, we never defined what we meant by that.  We had several
discussions on this topic.  I think the best way for Enron to think about
this is in terms of the psychology of traders.  Critical mass gives a market
liquidity.  Traders seem to think about liquidity in terms of breadth (how
many products are being traded) and depth (the number of bids and offers).
Our thoughts were that when a trader pulls up a screen, he (or she) wants to
see bids, offers, and trades occurring.  So a simple (and cheap) metric that
Enron could use to determine whether rivals are approaching critical mass is
simply to pull up screens and see if trades are occurring, and how quickly.
Traders will generally not use a trading platform that lacks "action".

- In terms of New Power, I feel it is extremely important that your managers
create an identity for the company.  Luckily no rival has done this (though
Green Energy is closer than most).  The company that can communicate a
simple and powerful message will create a competitive advantage for itself.
I believe you can differentiate yourself in this market (though you are
selling a commodity).  Since you are essentially selling service,
differentiation is always possible.

On a final note, I wanted to ask a favor.  My nephew recently graduate from
Michigan State University with a degree in business.  I brought him to
Wharton to work on the Tiger Projects.  This was because I knew he could add
value, and because I thought he needed more experience in some strategy
areas.  He served as project coordinator and worked on several projects
(including Enron).  I was hoping I could get him an interview at Enron since
he expressed interest in your company.  Any help you could offer is
appreciated.

Thanks again for making the experience memorable to the students.

Keith
  
