Message-ID: <13050593.1075856632971.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Wed, 28 Feb 2001 03:48:00 -0800 (PST)
From: jlieskov@mit.edu
To: vkamins@enron.com
Subject: Fund raising for MIT Sloan School
Cc: claudio.ribeiro@enron.com
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
Bcc: claudio.ribeiro@enron.com
X-From: "Jozef S. Lieskovsky" <jlieskov@MIT.EDU>
X-To: vkamins@enron.com
X-cc: claudio.ribeiro@enron.com
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Kaminski-V
X-FileName: vkamins.nsf

Dear Vince,

Please find the following description of the program that I would like to
raise additional funding for.  I will follow up today with a phone call to
answer any questions you may have.

As always we appreciate your time and support.

Thanks,
Jozef

The Eastern European students at MIT Sloan School of Management are
preparing an Eastern European week to be held in March 2001.  The one-week
long program will familiarize our classmates with many of the countries
that are going through the post communist transformation. As you well know,
Eastern Europe has a great deal of opportunities for many companies.
Unfortunately, it also presents many obstacles that make most of the
opportunities difficult to capture.

Because we believe that we can help to eliminate some of these obstacles,
we want to bring the Eastern European experience to MIT Sloan School of
Management.  Familiarizing the future business leaders with the countries
is only one step toward reforming Eastern Europe, but we believe it is
worth our time and effort.

During the week, we plan to bring series of lectures addressing the
business environment in Eastern Europe.  We want to emphasize especially
the success stories from Eastern Europe.  Such companies as Enron,
Volkswagen, ExxonMobil, GM, and GE have entered the Eastern European market
and show commitment to stay in it.  In at least one panel discussion with
academic experts and industry participants we hope to let everyone know
that Eastern Europe is a real place for business.

In addition to the educational activities, we are preparing number of
cultural events that will introduce the culture of this area.

The scope of our program depends greatly on the funds we will be able to
raise from our sponsors.  In return, we plan to advertise our sponsors in
every activity we will do.  We will make banners and any other appropriate
advertising as desired by the sponsor.  Should a sponsor be willing to send
a speaker for the panel discussion or to give a speech/lecture we would
appreciate the enrichment to our program.

The advertising will reach nearly 700 Sloan students and faculty.  In
addition, the advertising will reach all newly admitted students, as they
will visit our campus for the AdMIT day (an official program to sell our
school to the admitted students).




