Message-ID: <13706977.1075856633021.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Tue, 20 Feb 2001 03:01:00 -0800 (PST)
From: kristin.gandy@enron.com
To: celeste.roberts@enron.com, vince.kaminski@enron.com, 
	christie.patrick@enron.com, jana.giovannini@enron.com
Subject: Wharton Tiger Team
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Kristin Gandy
X-To: Celeste Roberts, Vince J Kaminski, Christie Patrick, Jana Giovannini
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Kaminski-V
X-FileName: vkamins.nsf

According to the information that Christie Patrick emailed me the following 
people are assigned to Wharton's Tiger Teams 1 and 3.  These candidates per 
Vince Kaminski's request should receive offers for Summer Associate positions 
located in his Research Group.

Tiger Team #1

1.  Vincent Chen
2.  Mallik Deepa
3.  Jack Rejtman
4.  Kim Whitsel
5.  Tulika Bhalia

6.  Nicholas Levitt - I am uncertain based on the emailed information from 
Christie if this is a student or a TA?  Can either Vince or Christie verify 
this information please.

Tiger Team #3

1.  Clay DeGiacinto
2.  Steve Lessar
3.  Vittal Maheshram
4.  Omar Bassel
5.  Dennis Feerick
6.  Marc "Jason" Cummins

The following candidates interviewed with the regular on campus Wharton team 
on 2/5/01 and were not passed onto the second round interviews.  With that 
information I am not sure if we will offer those candidates positions for the 
summer program?

1.  Kim Whitsel - Team #1
2.  Clay DeGiacinto - Team #3
3.  Gustavo Pallazzi - Team #2
4.  Edson Otani - Team #2

I also have that Heather Thorne is the teaching assistant and Donna Piazze is 
the professor for the project.  Can you also verify that information?

Vince if you would please verify and give me the okay via email then I will 
contact these candidates by phone to inform them they will be receiving an 
offer from Enron.  But before I do anything I want to make sure this 
information is correct and I am not excluding or adding any members that 
should receive an offer.

Thank you,

Kristin Gandy