Message-ID: <5915919.1075856633158.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Fri, 16 Feb 2001 02:28:00 -0800 (PST)
From: celeste.roberts@enron.com
To: vince.kaminski@enron.com
Subject: Hiring of Wharton Tiger Teams members for summer associate
 positions in Research
Cc: jeffrey.shankman@enron.com, michele.marvin@enron.com, 
	kristin.gandy@enron.com, charlene.jackson@enron.com, 
	jana.giovannini@enron.com
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
Bcc: jeffrey.shankman@enron.com, michele.marvin@enron.com, 
	kristin.gandy@enron.com, charlene.jackson@enron.com, 
	jana.giovannini@enron.com
X-From: Celeste Roberts
X-To: Vince J Kaminski
X-cc: Jeffrey A Shankman, Michele Nezi Marvin, Kristin Gandy, Charlene Jackson, Jana Giovannini
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Kaminski-V
X-FileName: vkamins.nsf

Vince:

Just want to confirm our conversation regarding your interest in the Wharton 
Tiger Teams 1& 3 and your intent to hire interested members into the summer 
associate program.  You stated that you could take all members into your 
research group for the summer.  Kristin Gandy is now in the process of 
obtaining from either you or members of your department the names of the 
individuals on teams 1 & 3.  Some of these individuals may have interviewed 
with us during the campus process.  If they did and were turned down by the 
team for a summer position, we will not extend offers to those individuals.  
Otherwise, if you are willing to take the additional Tiger Team Members into 
your group based on the experience you and your staff have had in working 
with these students, then the Associate Program will facilitate those offers.

At mid summer and the end of the summer, these Wharton MBAs' performance will 
be evaluated and cross-calibrated with other summer associates to determine 
whether they receive an offer to join the full-time Associate Program.  
Offers will be given to those summer associate who achieve extremely high 
performance ratings.

As soon as Kristin receives the names of these individuals and determines 
which members did not already interview, she will get out both a verbal and 
offer to them.

As follow-up, Jana Giovannini, Manager of Staffing in Career Development, 
will staff those that accept our offer from this Tiger Team list into your 
group for the summer.

Should you have any questions or concerns, please feel free to contact me.

Regards,
Celeste Roberts