Message-ID: <31663593.1075855882141.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Tue, 13 Jun 2000 02:55:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: sheri.thomas@enron.com
To: sally.beck@enron.com
Subject: Enron NetWorks offsite
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Sheri Thomas
X-To: Sally Beck
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Beck-S
X-FileName: sbeck.nsf

Hi - I just wanted to give you a quick run down on the meeting yesterday.  
Three people spoke at the meeting - Jeff McMahon, Louise and Philippe.  There 
was a lot of attention given to EnronOnline and it's success.  Greg Whalley 
spoke via satellite from London.  The basic theme was what it is going to 
take to survive in today's fast moving markets and how we are going to get 
there, and that in five years all businesses will be Internet companies or 
not companies at all.....  

Greg spoke briefly about what we were going to do to upgrade and expand 
existing platforms and the fact that no other player in the industry can do 
this but us because of our financial capabilities, reputation, and IT 
resources.  

Louise went over statistics, products offered, etc. on EnronOnline.

Philippe discussed all the IT projects in the works - the key one for ENA was 
enhancement of deal capture, valuation and settlements (no surprises 
there!).  One other common theme was streamlining our current systems.   He 
also confirmed the fact that we were moving from Lotus Notes to Exchange, and 
discussed the fact that we were running out of space in the building for our 
equipment (and the ability to keep the room cool) so they were looking to 
Ardmore for this.  

Jeff M. stated that we were looking for opportunities to capitalize on 
inefficiencies in the market, and get into other industries (e.g. MG Metals 
in Europe).  He also stated that Enron was going to Venture Capitalists for 
financial support and backing.  Of course, this means that Enron will have to 
give up some control, but it leads to increased deal flow, market share and 
new ideas....  He said the initial backing will be in the neighborhoods of 
$1B - most likely in Q3.  

I tried to capture the main topics, let me know if you have any questions!

Sheri