Message-ID: <15712370.1075855876709.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Thu, 17 Aug 2000 00:19:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: shona.wilson@enron.com
To: sally.beck@enron.com, patti.thompson@enron.com
Subject: Update on items missed their target date and note on the to do's
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Shona Wilson
X-To: Sally Beck, Patti Thompson
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Beck-S
X-FileName: sbeck.nsf

Dear Sally,

As requested I have addressed your questions as follows:

1. Put in actual date of reviews of each office - done
2. Indicate the difference between Phase I and Phase II of London are - done
3. Indicate that we are looking at non-wholly owned subsidiaries - done 
(Marnier & EOTT)
4. AS a handout what are things that should have been cleared and weren't - 
attached - also put in global issues
5. Change the timelines for current status & reviews not yet taking place 
(Chicago, EOTT) - done
6. Send you the list of standards - attached on previous message
7. Determine what Now Sarzyna is - it is listed on the Enron Europe current 
status schedule.  It is in Poland, and it is a JY poer station that should be 
operational 
May 00 (not sure if they met the date).  Due to start operations in Q2-3.  
50% owned by Enron.
8. Send you the grid of Europe - sent in previous message.

As far as the global issues are concerned, my recommendations are:

1. Taping of phone lines - we should require for all trading offices
2. Use of mobile phones - we should ban the use of mobile phones to make 
trades
3. Translation of settled contracts - I don't think its worth the cost.  It 
can be done on an as needed basis if there are problems with the contracts 
(although
 since they are already settled it would be unlikely).
4. Enpower - for offices without the critical mass of transactions, Enpower 
is not necessary but some controlled environment is required.  If Enpower is 
not used, 
they must be reviewed more frequently.

On another topic, all of the associates Jana offered and that would fit in 
the role we were discussing are gone (3 were gone by the time we finished our 
meeting). She 
has given me additional resumes - mostly analysts, who would fit the 
position.  However, I was thinking of getting an analyst and then switching 
the person out for
Jenifer Bagwell.  When I interviewed her she wasn't keen on travelling, but I 
think its worth at least a discussion with her (since the position is a 
better fit than her current).  Do you have any thoughts either way?

Let me know if there is anything else I can help with.  You can reach me at 
212 715 5243.

Best regards,

Shona


