Message-ID: <16701752.1075840427628.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Wed, 2 Jan 2002 09:06:04 -0800 (PST)
From: robert.superty@enron.com
To: j..farmer@enron.com
Subject: RE: NETCO Items
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Superty, Robert </O=ENRON/OU=NA/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=RSUPERT>
X-To: Farmer, Daren J. </O=ENRON/OU=NA/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=Dfarmer>
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: FARMER-D
X-FileName: darren farmer 6-26-02.pst

You did, it was part of another email. Tks - Bob

 -----Original Message-----
From: 	Farmer, Daren J.  
Sent:	Wednesday, January 02, 2002 11:04 AM
To:	Superty, Robert
Cc:	Olsen, Michael
Subject:	RE: NETCO Items

Bob. 

I could have sworn that I sent you this information earlier.  But I can't find it in my e-mail anywhere, so here it is:

Highest Priority
El Paso Gas Transmission Texas Pipeline (formerly PGE Texas and Valero)	Hub contract, Park & Lend contracts, inter- and intrastate transport
East Texas Gas Transmission (Duke Energy Field Services)			Cartwheel agreement, transport

Secondary Priority
Guadalupe Pipeline (Duke Energy Field Services)					Intra- and interstate transport
Oasis Pipeline									"	"	"	"
TXU Gas Distribution (Lone Star Pipeline)						"	"	"	"
Houston Pipe Line								"	"	"	"
El Paso Field Services Channel							"	"	"	"
Oneok Westex (Westar)								"	"	"	"
Kinder Morgan Texas Pipeline (Midcon)						"	"	"	"
Tejas Pipeline

The contracts on the pipes listed under "Highest Priority" are required for us to trade in the 3 main areas in Texas (EOL).  We must have these on day one.  The secondary contracts/pipes will be used soon after start up and are ranked in order of importance.  Please let me know if you have any questions.  Again, I thought that I sent this to you a couple of weeks ago. Sorry for the delay.

D
 -----Original Message-----
From: 	Superty, Robert  
Sent:	Wednesday, January 02, 2002 9:50 AM
To:	Farmer, Daren J.
Cc:	Calcagno, Suzanne
Subject:	RE: NETCO Items

Darren, plan is to have the necessary contracts in place under the new NETCO name so we can do business on all key pipes. Regarding the Intrastates I suggest you think about the key ones so we have them on the list and get basic contracts in place once we have a new name and parent. Also what services you want on each so we get all the necessary contracts done. 

I'll get you some budget info shortly, tks - Bob

 -----Original Message-----
From: 	Farmer, Daren J.  
Sent:	Wednesday, January 02, 2002 9:43 AM
To:	Superty, Robert
Subject:	RE: NETCO Items

Bob, 

For the Texas Desk, Mike Olsen and I will start out handling the scheduling activities.  As we start up we will not be doing a lot of shipping on the intrastate pipes.  We will primarily be utilizing hub and cartwheel agreements and net outs.  Trading primarily on the Waha, Katy , and Carthage hubs.  I will cover Katy and Carthage.  Mike will continue to cover Waha and any shipping activities on the intrastate pipes.  I will need a second person fairly soon after we begin trading again (within a month or two).  

What are you thinking that we need to look into on the intrastates?

Also, with message of setting up new budgets, can you have Brandy send me a copy of the budget we had in place for Texas 2002? 

Thanks.

D

 -----Original Message-----
From: 	Superty, Robert  
Sent:	Wednesday, January 02, 2002 8:51 AM
To:	Kinsey, Lisa; Jaquet, Tammy; Olinger, Kimberly S.; Calcagno, Suzanne; Farmer, Daren J.; Lamadrid, Victor; Sullivan, Patti; Gay, Randall L.
Cc:	Jackson, Brandee; Hall, Bob M
Subject:	NETCO Items

Wanted to share the latest communication on NETCO. This is all good news and exciting to see that things will be moving on a fast track from this point forward. I will be pulling you together and asking for some information to meet the plans and deadlines listed below. 

For a start please review your pipe coverage that is planned on your desk with the NETCO team you will have to work with and forward me that breakdown. I know you took a preliminary look at this but I want you all to rethink and give me a "final or startup" list. The list you gave me on the contracts required for NETCO on the pipelines has been consolidated and is being reviewed. I believe we need to take a look at some of the Intrastates and key LDC's and get that info on the list. Seating plan should be simple once we get a better handle on the layout for 5 & 6. I'll try and get some details today. Don't know if we will be allocated spots on 6. IT systems layout and structure is already being planned/discussed. Most likely we will get involved in some testing once they start laying out the new architecture.

In addition any other items for a re-start that you can think of please forward to me. 

Of course we still have the major hurdle of securing a buyer and once/if we do what do they actually submit a bid to purchase. Let's be optimistic and hope they are interested in the NETCO structure that has been laid out. Regardless we still need to do all of the tasks listed below to get ready.

Thanks - Bob

The New Year has arrived and we really to finalize a lot of the work with regards to moving into NETCO.  Obviously we still do not have a deal but the deadline is approaching and preparations need to be finalized.

The main areas to focus on over the next week are:-

(i) 	Re-start/Integration Plans (due on Jan 7)				To be forwarded to Louise	
	These plans need to be detailed and show clear detailed timelines and detailed responsibilities for getting us up and running as soon as possible.  
	The current restart date is January 21, 2001 but may be pushed forward to January 14, 2002.	
(ii)	Budget (due Jan 3, 2002)						To be forwarded to Faith Killen 
	First year budget to include all start up costs (some of which can be amortized)
(iii)	Seating Plans								Tammy Shepperd to co-ordinate
	We need to start the planning process for seating as we will be living on floors 5 & 6 of the Enron South building.
	I have asked Tammy Shepperd to commence the seating plan and we would look to start the moves as soon as possible but with a large number occuring around January 11,2002.
(iv)	Due Diligence
	We continue the process with two new companies this week (Wednesday and Thursday). Andy Zipper is taking the lead for the company arriving on Wednesday, please help him with his requirements.