Message-ID: <265455.1075849830523.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Tue, 17 Apr 2001 15:58:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: kim.theriot@enron.com
To: leslie.reeves@enron.com
Subject: Update on ConfirmLogic
Cc: sally.beck@enron.com
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
Bcc: sally.beck@enron.com
X-From: Kim S Theriot
X-To: Leslie Reeves
X-cc: Sally Beck
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: BECK-S
X-FileName: sbeck.nsf

I wanted to give you a quick update on ConfirmLogic....

Testing was done last week on the ConfirmLogic module.  On Thursday, we 
discussed with Kathryn Cordes and the ConfirmLogic IT team the items that we 
had found that were "show stoppers" as far as releasing the product for Beta 
Testing.  Some of the major Items found were the inability to properly handle 
Basis Swaps for Gas and inability to display meaningful Index References for 
Power (they were pulling in a code rather than a description of the Index).  

The team worked on the "fixes" and migrated the code last night.  Today 
during testing, they found that the new code had actually caused problems 
with the fixed price and volume information, which was working previously.  I 
talked to Kathryn and she said that the were rebuilding the code.  She said 
that someone had tested the fix last night and everything worked fine.  We 
plan more testing in the morning.

They are doing a high-level demo this Thursday for Beta Customers just to 
introduce the module.  They were planning on having more extensive Beta demos 
for each client starting next week but realize that those may have to 
postponed further.

We have told them that we would not sign off for Beta testing until we were 
comfortable that the items that we identified were working.  We need 
consistent, stable days of testing before I will feel comfortable.

Overall, we like the "new" streamlined version of the screens and feel that 
it will be a good product if they can work out the data display issues.

Call with any questions.

Kim Theriot  
