Message-ID: <31217941.1075844173790.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Thu, 18 Jan 2001 06:16:00 -0800 (PST)
From: ets.center@enron.com
To: enron.everyone_et&s_houston@enron.com
Subject: Outlook Migration Details
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: ETS Solution Center
X-To: Enron Everyone_ET&S_Houston
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: LOKAY-M
X-FileName: mlokay.nsf

As we prepare to migrate to Microsoft Windows 2000 and Outlook 2000, we want 
to provide information on Outlook...the product, the implementation, and 
Enron's email guidelines, in general.  Microsoft Outlook 2000 integrates more 
effectively with the Windows 2000 Operating System and other Microsoft 
products than does Lotus Notes.  Further it provides a more robust mail 
platform.  Additional benefits include the ability to update your hand-held 
device from multiple places, and the ability to retrieve your Enron E-mail 
via a browser.

Mail Conversion Process - You will not lose any mail messages in the 
conversion to Outlook!  The last 30 days of mail will be converted to 
Outlook.  All other mail messages in your Notes database will be available 
via a read-only browser-based Notes file.  The Enron E-mail retention policy 
described below will apply to all mail files.  All information in your 
personal address book will be converted to Outlook.

Notes Databases - After the Outlook conversion, you will not have Notes on 
your desktop; thus, all Notes databases will be web-enabled.  If you are the 
owner of a Notes database, you will be contacted soon to schedule the 
conversion.

Notes Archive Databases - Archiving of mail messages is a violation of the 
mail retention policy.  No archive database will be supported or converted to 
Outlook.  You will not have access to the file after the conversion.

Training - To ensure your successful conversion to Outlook 2000, you will be 
required to sign up for and attend a hands-on training class.  The class will 
consist of an overview of Windows 2000 and Outlook.  You will also receive 
brochures and other documentation as you are migrated to Outlook.  

Encrypted Mail
Encrypted mail messages will not be converted to Outlook.  If you have any 
encrypted messages in your current mail file, we will contact you directly 
prior to your conversion.

Mailbox Size - User Mailboxes will be restricted to 100 MB.  Warnings will be 
sent as your mail file reaches 75MB.  After your mail file reaches 100 MB, 
you will no longer be able to send messages.

Inbound/Outbound Mail Size Limits - The restricted size for both incoming and 
outgoing mail is now 10MB.

Email Retention Policy - Below is a copy of the Email Retention Policy.  This 
policy will be enforced with the Outlook Implementation.

Message Location	Maximum Retention
Inbox	30 days
Message Log/Sent Mail 	30 days
Trash	Rollover from Inbox for 15 days
Bulletin Boards	30 days
Folders/Archives	E-mail messages placed in folders/archives
Archives	All e-mail messages placed in archives will be destroyed after one 
year.

Your next communication will be shortly before your migration date.  If you 
have any questions in the meantime, please feel free to call us. 


ETS Solution Center at 713-345-4745
Omaha Help Desk at 402-398-7454




