Message-ID: <26266990.1075844096206.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Wed, 20 Sep 2000 00:58:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: ets.center@enron.com
To: enron.everyone_et&s_houston@enron.com
Subject: Windows 2000 / Outlook Project
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: ETS Solution Center
X-To: Enron Everyone_ET&S_Houston
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: LOKAY-M
X-FileName: mlokay.nsf

Houston-area ET&S employees:  (The Marketing group should have already been 
contacted by Jean McFarland.)




Next week, we are going to begin Phase I of the Windows 2000/Outlook 
Project.  In this phase, we will be gathering information about the hardware 
and software that you are using within your group.  

The process will begin with an email inventory.  You will receive an email on 
Monday, September 25, with the subject of W2K Inventory-Please Open.  All you 
need to do is open the email message.  This email will do a quick inventory 
of applications you have installed on your PC or that you may access from the 
network, as well as your desktop hardware specifications.  The information 
gathered from this email will be stored in a Notes database for reporting.  
It is very important that you open this email from your primary workstation.  
Please do not open it remotely, or if you're checking someone else's mail.

Mid-week, we will deploy teams to conduct individual interviews to assure 
that we have a complete picture of your technical environment.  This process 
will take approximately six weeks to complete for all of ETS.  The findings 
from these interviews will determine the Phase II start date.

Data Responsibility

As we prepare for this massive effort, we ask that you assist us by doing the 
following:
1) identify any business-related applications that may reside locally.
2) remove data from the local drive of your desktop (c:\ and/or d:\), and 
store it on your network drive.  The special data requirements of laptop  
users will be addressed during the actual migration.
3) remove all non-business-related data from network drives.
4) remove non-company-owned applications from your environment.
5) if you have historical data that does not change, contact the Solution 
Center and have a CD created for a more permanent storage method.


Training for Windows 2000/Outlook

Training requirements will be addressed during Phase II by a number of 
methods that will include:
hands-on training, which will consist of 1 hour on Windows 2000 and 2 hours 
on Outlook,
IPTV video,
tri-fold cards on the Microsoft products, and
CBT (Computer-Based Training).  

If you have any questions, comments, or concerns, please feel free to contact 
the:

ETS Solution Center at 54745