Message-ID: <22361718.1075855890000.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Tue, 25 Apr 2000 10:01:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: barry.pearce@enron.com
To: jim.fallon@enron.com
Subject: Organisational Announcement.
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Barry Pearce
X-To: Jim Fallon
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Beck-S
X-FileName: sbeck.nsf

Draft - for your review...not sure who to say to 'report to'......although 
obviously it's you.


We are pleased to announce that Barry Pearce, Vice President, will be joining 
Enron Broadband Services as Global Controller of Trading Support Operations. 
Barry, who will be based in Houston and report functionally to both Jim 
Fallon and John Echols, will assume responsibility for the on-going 
day-to-day control and development of EBS's trading support infra-structure.

Recognizing that EBS's increasing trading operations worldwide are ever 
expanding, there is a need to insure outstanding internal controls are in 
place for all trading and risk management activities, regardless of location. 
Barry's responsibilities with regard to Global Trading Support Operations 
will mirror those of other Controller functions throughout Enron. In this 
role, Barry will work closely with Sally Beck's Global Risk Management Group 
to insure that EBS is focused on best practice throughout the front and back 
office functions, including Risk Book Management, Deal Capture, Contract 
Administration, Contract Settlements and Trading Accounting. Barry's group 
will also help ensure operational systems are developed to facilitate the 
timely and accurate reporting of all trading activities and that key 
operational procedures and processes are implemented.   

Barry has been with Enron since 1992, when he joined the company from Arthur 
Andersen. Barry has spent the last five years in London playing an integral 
part in the development and success of the support operations of ECT Europe. 
He moves to EBS from his current job as VP, European Gas and Power Trading 
Support Operations. 

Please join us in wishing Barry  success in his new role.
