Message-ID: <6616905.1075855931594.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Tue, 8 Aug 2000 07:36:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: shona.wilson@enron.com
To: michael.moscoso@enron.com
Subject: timeline for global standards & global reporting implementation
Cc: sally.beck@enron.com
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
Bcc: sally.beck@enron.com
X-From: Shona Wilson
X-To: Michael E Moscoso
X-cc: Sally Beck
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Beck-S
X-FileName: sbeck.nsf

Dear Mike,

As we discussed, you will be heavily involved in constructing and 
implementing global standards and global reporting.  This is a strategic 
initative requested by the commercial teams as well as Causey.  This 
absolutely must be in place by the end of the year.

Essentially, there are three main areas:

develop global (minimum) standards
develop & implement exception reporting to these standards
develop & implement global operation reporting

I have put together milestones for us to work by in these projects:

Global operating performance

This  will be the monthly reporting package.  Currently we do this for N. 
America.  We need to establish a reporting format for the products/locations 
currently not included in this package.  The package is not intended to be 
incorporated into the current package, but use it as a guide to create our 
own.

Timeline:
Aug 31 - Finalize what will be reported
Sept 15 - Finalize reporting lines (who we are getting this info from @ each 
location and who is receiving and consolidating it)
Sept 30 - Close of business for sept 30 we should have our first consolidated 
reporting package to report
Oct 30 - Collect feedback from 1st reporting package and redesign reporting 
if necessary (continual improvements)

Global standards time line (daily reporting)

This will be the exception reporting based on the global standards we 
create.  This will be a daily reporting package.

Timeline:
August 31 - finalize global standards into 2 buckets
Quantitative (to be reported daily)
Qualitative (to be reviewed within doorstep reviews)
Sept 15 - Establish measurable targets for quantitative standards
Sept 30 - Finalize reporting format for quantitative reporting lines (who do 
we get it from, who consolidates it, who sees it, how often)
Nov 30 - Have reporting implemented - start reporting

Regards

SHona

PS - I'm also working on developing a monthly reporting summary for each 
office concerning what the latest developements are, much like they have in 
London.  I have Maria working on developing a list of all offices.