Message-ID: <10939465.1075855931616.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Thu, 13 Jul 2000 09:38:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: shona.wilson@enron.com
To: sally.beck@enron.com
Subject: 
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Shona Wilson
X-To: Sally Beck
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Beck-S
X-FileName: sbeck.nsf

Dear Sally,

Since we may not be able to have our bi-weekly meeting, I thought I'd let you 
know what's going on:

DPR
I'm working with London to determine how to report the MG DPR to us.  Nothing 
has been decided yet as we are waiting on the risk management policies & risk 
limits from our guys in London.
As you know, plenty of V@R questions have been coming our way, and are 
somewhat difficult for Mike's team to answer.  I talked with Eugenio and he 
is in the process of putting together some V@R analytics/graphs Mike's guys 
can easily create to answer simpler V@R questions.
Burton, a book analyst in Brent's group is coming back to Mike's DPR group to 
support Gary Stadler and work on the benchmark reports and curve 
validations.  Jenifer Bagwell has taken Burton's place in Brent's group.

A while back, Eugenio created a database to capture information and allows 
book & commodity analysis.  He has been showing this to Business Unit 
controllers & the RAC group, but has not distributed it yet, due to security 
issues.  Currently, the database does not restrict different users to 
different commodities (power people can see gas and vice versa).  It will 
slow down the database considerably if these restrictions are put in, but it 
may be necessary.  I think the business controllers would not share the 
information with commercial, but I'm not sure about the analysts in the RAC 
group.  I'd like to get your opinion on this.

Doorstep
I've updated the presentation to include places and planned visits for 
offices previously not visited and second offices visits for the next year
Donna, Ted, Richard L. and I have a meeting scheduled to go over the follow 
up of the first visits - I'll update you after the meeting.

Hope you had a good vacation!

Regards