Message-ID: <24524866.1075855931681.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Fri, 2 Jun 2000 09:40:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: shona.wilson@enron.com
To: sally.beck@enron.com
Subject: What I'm up to
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Shona Wilson
X-To: Sally Beck
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Beck-S
X-FileName: sbeck.nsf

Dear Sally,

Hope all is going well.  The following is a list of things I'm working on.  

I'm midway through putting together the "straw-man" for the doorstep review - 
which will consist of a proposal on what our goals are, what should be done 
to meet those goals, who should do it, and when it should be done.  I hope to 
have it ready for your review during the week of the 12th.  I'm working 
together with Rick Carson on it, and also obtaining input from all the people 
who participated in previous doorstep reviews.
I'm working with Mike to determine what gaps we have in the DPR process 
(certain info may not be complete, some books are not received on a timely 
basis).  We have some thoughts, I just need to write them up and do a bit of 
research to determine how to deal with these issues.
I have a meeting set up with Jan-Erland for next Friday to discuss Japan.  
I've been attending the conference calls, but need to establish my role in 
the process.  I also received a message from Joe Hirl, and will set up a 
meeting with him while I'm in Japan.
I've made initial contact with India, and will start attending their 
conference calls.  Milind Laad has asked me to fly down to see the office, 
but before I do that, I need to get up to speed with what they have done 
already.
I've met with Eugenio and we have discussed the projects he works on.  He and 
I need to structure what his future projects are and the resources needed for 
those projects.
I'll be in London next week (I leave this Sunday and will be back in the 
office on Friday) working with Brent.  I expect he will be able to give me a 
lot of information to help with the doorstep straw-man.

Patti is trying to set up a weekly or bi-weekly discussion for us, starting 
the week of the 12th. Until that time, I'll keep you updated through e-mail 
and voice mail.  If you need me, I have given Patti all my contact info for 
next week.

Have a good week-end.

Shona 