Message-ID: <6785092.1075855931714.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Thu, 1 Jun 2000 10:05:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: shona.wilson@enron.com
To: sally.beck@enron.com, brent.price@enron.com, brenda.herod@enron.com, 
	kristin.albrecht@enron.com, leslie.reeves@enron.com, 
	sheila.glover@enron.com, scott.earnest@enron.com, 
	sheri.thomas@enron.com, mary.solmonson@enron.com, 
	james.scribner@enron.com, susan.harrison@enron.com
Subject: Listing of possible recruits
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Shona Wilson
X-To: Sally Beck, Brent A Price, Brenda F Herod, Kristin Albrecht, Leslie Reeves, Sheila Glover, Scott Earnest, Sheri Thomas, Mary Solmonson, James Scribner, Susan Harrison
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Beck-S
X-FileName: sbeck.nsf

Here is a revised summary of the 13 candidates I sent to Tony Vasut.  I 
believe he has made initial contact with each of them.  If you decide you 
would like to talk to them, please don't mention my name, as some of them are 
former clients of mine, used to work with me, or still work with my husband 
(I think you get the picture - I've been gone from PwC less than a month).  
However, I would be pleased to talk to you about any of the people mentioned 
below.

I have categorized them into 5 categories - senior level, IT/Risk, mid level, 
junior level, and admin assistants.  I have not spoken to the majority of 
these people about giving our recruiting department their name (see note 
above), with the exception of Mark Smith, Dave Simpson, and Connie Shugart.  
All of these people have indicated great interest in coming to Enron.

Again, please call me with any questions, or need of further info.  My 
extension is 39123.

Best regards

Shona

Senior level risk people

Andy Dunn
until 3 weeks ago he was a director in the PwC risk management practice.  Due 
to a falling out between Andy and the partners (not client related), he left 
the firm.  He is extremely well respected by both the audit and the non-audit 
personnel, and his leaving came as an unexpected surprise.  I have worked 
with him on a number of occasions and would highly recommend him to Enron.  
The downside to Andy is that he lives in Denver, is used to travelling a lot, 
but, at the last time we spoke (a few months ago), is not interested in 
leaving Denver.  His cell phone (if still in use) is 303 807 0040.

Mark (Allan) Smith
Mark is in the PwC energy risk management practice in Houston.  We worked 
very closely together throughout 1999 on projects for Coral Energy and Equiva 
trading.  Prior to working at PwC, Mark was at BP for 15 years where he had 
many different roles (he worked as a crude trader, products trader, he worked 
in the risk management department, in the refinery itself as an engineer).  
Mark was excellent to work with.  Clients are extremely impressed with his 
knowledge and background.  I would highly recommend him for a leadership role 
at Enron.  I spoke to him and he is interested in pursuing opportunities at 
Enron.  His direct number is 713 356 4233.  His cell phone number is 713 412 
3890.



IT/Risk people


Shawn lafferty, Alan Beaton, & Carolyn Johnson
These people are all senior managers in KPMG's Information risk management 
department and are all looking for opportunities outside KPMG.  They all have 
8+ years work experience in the IT field.  KPMG's main number is 713 319 2000.


Mid level risk people


Marilyn Chee 
She currently works for Equiva trading, manager in-charge of accounting for 
derivatives.  Her role has expanded to encompass FAS 133 and all mtm 
accounting entries.  She liases with all book heads (crude and all 
products).  In the past, she worked in the Texaco internal audit department.  
She was my main contact at Equiva when I was their auditor.  She is extremely 
diligent and very professional.  I enjoyed working with her greatly and have 
to say she was one of the best people I have worked with in the capacity of a 
client/professional relationship.    Marilyn has a lot of responsibilities at 
the alliance and is extremely well respected.  She has had a difficult year 
as she is doing a job that should be done by 3+ people.  She has mentioned to 
me that she is not happy about the fact that her load continues to increase, 
and has even mentioned finding another job.  However, due to the fact that 
she is so well respected where she is, she may be difficult to recruit (713 
277 6280).  If you contact her I would not want my name associated with it 
due to the PwC/alliance relationship.

Scott Barnes
Scott is an audit manager at PwC.  He has worked in energy for his career, 
which he spent in Houston and Moscow and New York.  He has worked as an audit 
manager, a special projects manager for the managing partner of the Houston 
office, a manager in the capital markets group (the group responsible for 
helping non-US companies prepare to register and list with the SEC), and the 
transaction support group (the group that is resposnible for performing due 
diligence procedures for PwC clients).  He is looking for opportunities 
outside PwC.  The PwC general line is 713 356 4000.

Keith Considine
He is currently a senior accountant at PwC.  He is the best senior PwC 
Houston has, as well as probably one of the best people I have ever worked 
with (the top of his class).  Although he only has 4 years of work experience 
(all at PwC), he performs in a manager capacity.  He worked for me on the 
Coral Energy audit engagement and received an excellent evaluation from both 
myself and the partners (we all agreed that he is one of the best people any 
of us have seen or worked with).  He is currently working on a project at one 
of PwC's clients to standardize their mid office processes .  He definitely 
does not see himself as a long time employee of PwC, but is currently 
planning on staying there until he is promoted to manager.  I actually 
recommended him for a promotion to manager at July 1 this year, but due to 
capacity issues, I don't expect that the promotion will be approved. His 
number is 713 356 5617.


Junior level risk people

Robin Manspeaker 
currently works as a scheduler at Equiva Trading.  She has been there about a 
year and a half.  Before that, she worked at Novarco in White Plains (a 
subsidiary of Marc Rich).  She was there about 3 years.  I do not know where 
she was before that.  I have worked with her during my audits of Marc Rich.  
She seemed very well versed in her knowledge of her job and processes 
surrounding it. I do not have her number, but you can call Shell information 
at 713 241 6161 and they will transfer you.

Dave Simpson
Analyst at Koch Energy in Houston, has a degree in accounting and has work 
experience of about 2 years.  He is very interested in leaving Koch.  I know 
him on a person basis, but have not worked with him.  He is a good guy and 
very likeable.  His phone number is 713 544 7649

Robert Hernandez
is someone who may be able to fill an open position at Enron South America.  
Last year, Robert worked for me at PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) on the 
external audit of Coral Energy.  He was a great worker and very good at his 
job.  He speaks fluent Spanish as well as fluent English.

Before working at PwC, Robert worked in the gas trading industry in the 
mid/back office.  I'm not sure of all of his responsibilities, but I do know 
he was involved in gas actualizations. In total, I think he has about 4 years 
of work experience.

He left PwC in March to take a position with Heins in their internal audit 
department.  I have not spoken to him since he left, but do know he paid a 
recruiter to find him this position.  I do not know if he is happy at his 
current company or not.

I do not know his number, but he can surely be found by using the general 
line.  I looked it up for you and came up with two - 713 785 1494, 713 225 
0565.


Admin assistants


Connie Shugart
she is currently working at PwC as an administrative assistant.  She is also 
involved in recruiting experienced personnel for PwC's audit and internal 
audit service lines.  She is very interested in Enron and has asked me a few 
times to get her a contact here.  I have not worked directly with her but due 
to her close proximity to my office I talked to her a number of times and was 
very impressed. (713 356 4000 - general PwC number).  I have spoken to her 
about giving her name to Tony and she is very excited about coming over and 
interviewing.  She really wants to work for Enron!

Ellen Robertson
She is an administrative assistant who is looking to leave PwC.   I have 
never worked with her, but she did come to ask me my opinion on how she 
should go about finding other work. (713 356 4000 PwC general line).