Message-ID: <15385110.1075855819327.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Tue, 18 Apr 2000 01:55:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: kay.chapman@enron.com
To: rob.milnthorp@enron.com, max.yzaguirre@enron.com, janet.dietrich@enron.com, 
	christopher.calger@enron.com, rodney.malcolm@enron.com, 
	w.duran@enron.com, mike.miller@enron.com, brian.redmond@enron.com, 
	jeffrey.shankman@enron.com, jim.fallon@enron.com, 
	gary.hickerson@enron.com, john.lavorato@enron.com, 
	jere.overdyke@enron.com, raymond.bowen@enron.com, 
	jeff.donahue@enron.com, george.mcclellan@enron.com, 
	mark.haedicke@enron.com, sally.beck@enron.com, scott.josey@enron.com, 
	c.thompson@enron.com
Subject: Meetings
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Kay Chapman
X-To: Rob Milnthorp, Max Yzaguirre, Janet R Dietrich, Christopher F Calger, Rodney Malcolm, W David Duran, Mike J Miller, Brian Redmond, Jeffrey A Shankman, Jim Fallon, Gary Hickerson, John J Lavorato, Jere C Overdyke, Raymond Bowen, Jeff Donahue, George McClellan, Mark E Haedicke, Sally Beck, Scott Josey, C John Thompson
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Beck-S
X-FileName: sbeck.nsf

Guys, currently we have two meetings a week between the business unit heads 
to discuss deal flow and communicate issues and opportunties - the Monday 
morning meeting and the Friday managing director meeting.  I would suggest 
that we eliminate both these meetings.  I would propose that we replace them 
with a single  Friday afternoon meeting from 2:30PM to 4:00PM. The business 
unit heads identified above would be invited.  At this meeting, I would 
expect less of a reporting focus and employ a more candid and detailed 
discussion of opportunities, problems and issues between the "partners" in 
this company.  It would include (i) a review of current DASH's, (ii) a more 
detailed discussion around the opportunities identified on the "Hot Sheet", 
(iii) a more candid discussion around the P&L and tactics required to meet 
overall financial targets and (iv) provide a forum to provide input into and 
communicate business strategies between the business units. In other words, 
employ the goals of the Friday managing director meeting with all the 
business unit leaders represented.

Given the religious holidays this week, there will be no meeting this 
Friday.  I would suggest that we have a regular Monday morning meeting next 
Monday and we will start this new forum a week from this Friday.  This 
meeting would be held in 30C1 and Monterrey, Calgary and Portland should be 
connected via video conference.  In order for this to work and be effective,  
the business unit heads need to be available and participate actively in the 
discussion.

If you have questions, comments or concerns do not hesitate to let me know.

Regards
Delainey
