Message-ID: <23946815.1075857010236.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Mon, 1 May 2000 19:01:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: glen.dixon@qp.qld.gov.au
To: vince.kaminski@enron.com
Subject: Updated Electricity Homepage (Great Links - University of Queensl
	and - Australia)
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: DIXON Glen <Glen.Dixon@qp.qld.gov.au>
X-To: Vince J Kaminski
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Kaminski-V
X-FileName: vkamins.nsf

Hi Vince,

Have a look at my homepage which I have been updating (see Energy Markets):
www.acmc.uq.edu.au/~gwd/EnergyExchange.html

Regards Glen Dixon
Part - Time Phd Student - Department of Mathematics (University of
Queensland)

P.S I am hopefully attending the Australian Risk Conference where you are a
speaker in July 2000 (Sydney). Hope to hear you speak.

 Glen W. Dixon
  Project Officer - Procurement Profiling
  Queensland Purchasing
  Department of Public Works

  "Important

  This electronic message and any attachments are supplied in
good faith and are believed to be free of Year 2000 or other date related
problems (i.e. Year 2000 compliance).  The Department of Public Works
forwards this message and attachments to you on the basis that you use them
at your own risk.  The department accepts no responsibility for damage or
loss (arising from negligence or otherwise) which may occur through the use
or transmission of this message and attachments and recommends that you
conduct your own independent tests to determine Year 2000 compliance before
use.

  The contents of this electronic message and any attachments
are intended only for the addressee and may contain privileged or
confidential information.  They may only be used for the purposes for which
they were supplied.  If you are not the addressee, you are notified that any
transmission, distribution, downloading, printing or photocopying of the
contents of this message or attachments is strictly prohibited.  The
privilege or confidentiality attached to this message and attachments is not
waived, lost or destroyed by reason of a mistaken delivery to you.  If you
receive this message in error please notify the sender by return e-mail or
telephone.

  Thank you."


