Message-ID: <1088435.1075855881464.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Tue, 13 Jun 2000 17:20:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: eric.gadd@enron.com
To: sally.beck@enron.com
Subject: Re: Weekly Update on MG Aquisition and Assimilation
Cc: esther.gerratt@enron.com
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
Bcc: esther.gerratt@enron.com
X-From: Eric Gadd
X-To: Sally Beck
X-cc: Esther Gerratt
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Beck-S
X-FileName: sbeck.nsf

Sally- 

I will gladly include you on the distribution of the weekly status on the MG 
acquisition and integration and instruct Esther Gerratt to add your name to 
the list.

I concur that Brent's return to Houston will create a potential information 
gap that even the best of weekly reports won't fill.  I think we may have an 
opportunity to keep your information level high and address my need to assess 
MG's remote offices.  If Brent were to linger in London for a few more 
months, we could lay out a program to assess MG's 24 offices around the world 
and benchmark their compliance with risk policies + procedures.  Brent's 
background and recent experience with Doorstep give him strong credentials 
for doing the job.  I haven't discussed this with MG's management, but it 
seems to be the right kind of activity for a new owner to undertake.  What 
are your thoughts?


   
	Enron Capital & Trade Resources Corp.
	
	From:  Sally Beck                           13/06/2000 19:57
	

To: Eric Gadd/LON/ECT@ECT
cc: Brent A Price/HOU/ECT@ECT 

Subject: Weekly Update on MG Aquisition and Assimilation

I have heard through the grapevine that you produce a weekly status report on 
the MG aquisition and assimilation.  Would you please include me on that 
distribution list effective this week?   I believe that it is assumed that 
Fernley Dyson will have day-to-day responsibility for this business once the 
aquisition is completed.  However, in my role over Global Risk Management 
Operations, I find myself fielding questions regarding our assessment of 
operations and any issues surrounding assimilation.  Brent Price, who reports 
to me and is on temporary assignment in the London office, has been keeping 
me updated on progress to date.  His return soon to Houston, however, will 
create a potential information gap that the weekly status report may help to 
fill.  

Thanks in advance to your attention to this.  

