Message-ID: <15561725.1075840868186.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Tue, 8 May 2001 13:24:00 -0700 (PDT)
From: jean.mrha@enron.com
To: john.goodpasture@enron.com
Subject: RE: Recent deal
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Jean Mrha <Jean Mrha/ENRON@enronXgate@ENRON>
X-To: John Goodpasture <John Goodpasture/ENRON@enronXgate>
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: KITCHEN-L
X-FileName: louise kitchen 2-7-02.pst


John,

Thank you for noticing the sucess that both Chris Hilgert and Mike Bilberry had in negotiating and closing the many complex contract arrangements between numerous parties in order to get the Formosa deal executed.  I am also happy that Clean Fuels is pleased with their new long term storage arrangement with Formosa and am sure it will create much value for your organization.  As such, I am assuming that you plan to grant origination to Chris and Mike to compensate them for their time and negotiations with Formosa on ECF's behalf.  Please contact me regarding the number you would like to propose.

Chris has worked on a presentation for ECF on this transaction and I will be reviewing it today.

Regards, Jean Mrha


 -----Original Message-----
From: 	Goodpasture, John  
Sent:	Wednesday, May 02, 2001 9:46 AM
To:	Bilberry, Michael; Hilgert, Chris
Cc:	Mrha, Jean
Subject:	Recent deal

Congratulations on closing the deal with Formosa, TEPPCO, et al.  It sounds like it was a very complex negotiation with a number of different players.  

Clean Fuels is certainly pleased with the new long term storage arrangement with Formosa.  We will begin working with them to better define the operating parameters (timing, pressures, volumes, etc) so we can develop the specific facility plans and cost estimates as necessary. 

You had also mentioned that you might be willing to share the management presentation that was put together for this deal?  That would be very interesting reading and I would appreciate a copy if possible. 

Thanks again,  John Goodpasture   