Message-ID: <11869801.1075854300258.JavaMail.evans@thyme>
Date: Tue, 27 Mar 2001 08:36:00 -0800 (PST)
From: laura.vuittonet@enron.com
To: thomas.martin@enron.com, jim.schwieger@enron.com, eric.bass@enron.com, 
	elsa.villarreal@enron.com, daren.farmer@enron.com, 
	stacey.neuweiler@enron.com, liz.bellamy@enron.com, 
	janet.wallis@enron.com
Subject: Windows 2000 and Outlook
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
X-From: Laura Vuittonet
X-To: Thomas A Martin, Jim Schwieger, Eric Bass, Elsa Villarreal, Daren J Farmer, Stacey Neuweiler, Liz Bellamy, Janet H Wallis
X-cc: 
X-bcc: 
X-Origin: Farmer-D
X-FileName: dfarmer.nsf

We will soon be migrating to Windows 2000 and Outlook.  The Texas Desk is 
scheduled for Tuesday, April 10th.  I was told to pass along the following 
information to my group:

1.  You will be receiving emails from the migration team ("GEM") - please be 
sure to only open this from your own desktop, and not remotely.  This is very 
important.  These messages will be explaining the migration process and what 
you need to do to insure a successful migration.

2.  Due to new space limitations on your mailbox, you are advised to clean 
your Notes mailbox of old, unneeded messages BEFORE migration.  With Outlook, 
you will be restricted to a Mailbox size of 100 MB.  Outlook will issue a 
warning once you reach 75 MB to let you know that you are near your Mailbox 
Limit.  Once you reach 100 MB, you will be prevented from sending email, but 
you will still be able to receive internal and external messages  You will 
then need to reduce the size of your mailbox by deleting old mail, saving 
attachments to a local drive, etc. before you will be able to send an email 
again.

3.  From the day of migration, only 30 days of old mail will be migrated from 
your mailbox.  This includes mail in your inbox and other folders.  Calendar 
items dating back one year from the day of migration will be migrated.

4.  Everyone will have a read only view of Notes until the transition is 
completed.  You will be able to copy/paste.

Thanks,
Laura